197:
Narrator: The next component we're going to work on

is going to be a simple dropdown.

Now, as I've repeated so many times throughout this course,

just nonstop, even though this looks simple,

there are going to be some distinct challenges around it.

In particular, there are two big things

we're gonna focus on,

new features of React that we have not discussed before,

as we're putting together this next component.

So we're gonna make a dropdown.

It's pretty much gonna behave

exactly as you would expect a dropdown to work.

A user is going to be prompted with a little box

that looks like so.

By default it will say something like select,

and then we'll have an icon over here

on the right hand side.

When a user clicks on this box

we are going to open a little menu right underneath it,

and inside that little menu,

we'll show a couple of different options

that the user can click on.

If a user then clicks on say, red, right here,

we're going to close that box

and replace the text inside the top box with red.

And that's pretty much it.

So again, looks simple,

but we are going to run into some interesting challenges.

The first thing we're going to discuss

is how we should design the props around this component.

So let's take a look at some props in just a moment.

198:
Instructor: The first thing we're going to take a look at

is how we should design the props

that are going to flow into this dropdown component.

So as you could probably guess,

we might want to use many different dropdowns

inside of a single application.

So we should probably make these dropdown components

as reusable as we possibly can.

Each of our different dropdowns

we might show inside of one app

are probably gonna have some different options

displayed inside them.

So in other words,

for each dropdown we show in a typical application,

we might want to show a different list of options

that a user can select.

So we should probably allow the list of options

that are going to be displayed

to be customized through the prop system.

If we have some parent component up here,

and it shows Dropdown 1 and Dropdown 2,

two separate dropdowns,

we should allow these dropdowns

to receive the list of options as props.

So this will be some particular list of options,

and this might be

a totally different list of options over here

that the user can click on.

So we need to think a little bit

around what the type of this prop is going to be.

How should we communicate to the dropdown

exactly what options we want to display right there?

I think an array of sorts

is probably gonna make a lot of sense.

But should it be an array of strings,

an array of objects?

How exactly should we communicate the options

down into that dropdown?

I'm gonna show you two different ways

we could go about this.

So here's the first way.

Now, just to be clear,

the way I'm about to show you

is probably not a very good idea,

but I just want you to see this approach

because you might be tempted to do this

on your own personal project.

So in this approach,

we could pass down an options prop

into our dropdown component.

That would be a plain array of strings.

Let's imagine we are building a dropdown component

for some kind of food-ordering application

and a user has to specify what level of spiciness

they want in their food.

So we could pass down an array of strings

that have values like,

I Want Mild, Spicy, Give Me Extra Spicy.

So we could take each of those strings

and put them into our dropdown.

And that's pretty much it.

Now, I would argue

that this is probably not a very good approach

because eventually you and I

are going to want to take a look

at what option a user has selected

and use that in some way inside of our program later on.

So think about how we would do that.

Let's imagine user clicks on Give Me Extra Spicy.

So that is what a user has selected.

And again, at some future point in time,

you and I are going to want to look into that dropdown

and figure out what a user selected

and use that text in some fashion.

So we might have to take a look at this text,

whatever user selected,

and do some comparison on it.

And say, "Okay, did the user click on Give Me Extra Spicy?

"If so, we need to make the food extra spicy."

So that logic might look like this right here.

Selected might be a variable

that tells us exactly what text is displayed right here.

So to figure out if the user selected Give Me Extra Spicy,

we would have to take a look

at some imaginary selected variable

and compare it exactly against a string,

Give Me Extra Spicy.

If those two things are equal,

well, that's a sign

that we want to make the user's food extra spicy.

So the reason that this is not a very good idea

is because we have now written out this really long string

right here and right here,

and our program is only going to work correctly

if that really, really long string

or the two really, really long strings

are exactly equal.

It's incredibly possible

that you and I can make a typo in that string,

incredibly possible.

So if we accidentally make a typo here or over here,

our program is not going to work correctly.

So another approach we might take,

an approach that's probably gonna be better than this,

is gonna be a technique we're gonna see

inside of a lot of different react components

where we are trying to display a user

with a list of different options.

So not only for a dropdown like this,

but many other similar components.

So technique we are going to use,

and, again, you're gonna see this

in many other components in the future,

is a prop structure that looks like this.

So our options prop is going to be an array of objects,

and each object

is going to have a label property and a value property.

The label property is going to be the text

that we're going to show inside the dropdown.

So that's gonna be what a user sees.

Then the value prop, or value property inside there,

is going to be some kind of very short

or relatively short string

that has very special meaning inside of our program.

So we can have one source of information, the label,

that's going to customize what text a user sees,

and then a second piece of information

that's going to be how we figure out

what a user has selected.

And that's really the string that gives meaning

to the option inside of our program.

So if we take this approach

and we want to later on figure out what a user selected

and maybe make the user's food spicy or what have you

we could do something like selected.value.

So selected would probably be that entire object

that the user selected.

And then value would give us just like the text spicy.

So we could look at selected.value.

If that is equal to the string spicy,

that is a sign that the user wants their food spicy.

We would call some imaginary function

called makeFoodSpicy.

Okay, so that's it.

That's the general idea.

So whenever we make use of our dropdown in any way,

we're gonna pass down some props

that includes an options property

that is gonna be an array of objects,

and each object is gonna have a label and a value.

The label is gonna be the text

that gets displayed to the user,

value is going to be some string, number,

or other piece of information

that conveys some special meaning inside of our code.
199:
Instructor: Let's start writing out some code

for our dropdown component.

I'm gonna go back over to my editor.

Now in present, inside of our app.js file,

we have a lot of code inside of here

related to our accordion.

We're gonna do the same thing we did last time

around our button component.

So we're gonna create a new page called Accordion page.

We're gonna take all the code outta the app.js file

and paste it into this new accordion page.js file.

So we are going to essentially

just duplicate the current app.js.

We're gonna have kind of a backup of some page that shows

really just our accordion or demos the accordion to the user

on the screen.

Okay, so let's get started.

Inside my pages directory,

I'll make a new file called accordionPage.js.

I'll then go back to app.js,

I'm going to select everything inside of here, copy it,

and then paste it into accordion page.

Here we go.

At the very top of accordion page,

I will update the import statement.

So it should be ../components

to go up one directory and then into components.

I will update the name of the component itself

to AccordionPage, and I will update the name of the export

at the bottom as well.

Very good.

Once I've made those three updates,

I'm gonna close that new page and go back to App.js.

Inside of the app.js file.

I'm gonna delete everything inside the app component

for right now, along with the import statement at the top.

We're gonna come back to this file in just a moment

and show the dropdown inside of here.

But let's first make our dropdown component file.

Inside the components folder,

I will make a new file called dropdown.js.

Inside there, I'm gonna make a function called dropdown.

Right now it'll return a div that says dropdown

and then do an export default dropdown.

Then back inside of app.js, let's import dropdown

from components dropdown.

I'm going to return dropdown, like so.

I'll save this,

and just make sure that I see the text drop down

on the screen.

Yep, definitely do.

So then finally, let's create an example list of props here.

So I want to make an array of objects

that have a label and a value property,

and we're gonna pass those down

as a prop called options into the dropdown.

Okay, so inside the app component,

I'll make a new variable called options.

This is gonna have a couple of objects.

For the first one, I'll give it a label of red

and a value of lowercase red.

I'm gonna copy that twice,

and I'll change these to red and green, green,

blue and blue.

I'll then take that variable right there,

and I'll pass it down into dropdown

as a prop called Options.

And that's it.

Okay, so now back over to dropdown.js.

We can now receive that list of options,

and then our next goal is going to be

to map over that list of options.

And for every option inside there,

we're going to eventually want to render that option

onto the screen.

But of course, we only really want

to show that list of options

when a user has clicked on this thing

and opened the dropdown up.

So yeah, we wanna build up a list,

but first before we build up that list,

we need to figure out how we're going to make this list

appear and disappear over time

as a user clicks on the dropdown.

As usual, we're looking at some content

on the screen changing,

and that means we need to think about the state system.

So we have figured out the prop system,

we've figured out what props our dropdown

is going to receive.

Now it's time to think about the state

and what different properties we want to add to the state.
200:
Lecturer: The dropdown component

is definitely going to need an event handler or two

and one or two pieces of state

so that we can control opening and closing this box

and also so we can actually select an item

eventually as well,

To figure out how we should design the state

and the different event handlers around it,

we're going to go through this design process once again.

Now don't worry, we're gonna go through this process

way more quickly than we did last time.

So let's just dive right in.

We're gonna go through each of these steps rather quickly,

and I'm going to abbreviate one or two

rather quickly as well so this should be rather fast.

Okay, so first off, we're gonna take a look at our mockup

and list out everything user is going to do

and what changes they're going to see.

So here we go.

On the left hand side, we're gonna show something like that.

User's gonna click on the box that's gonna open up a menu.

User is then going to click on one of these different items.

That box is going to close,

and the selected option or whatever the user clicked on,

the label for that one is going to be displayed

inside the box.

So I'm going to describe that entire process step by step,

as granular or as detailed as I possibly can.

So we start off with a user clicking the dropdown.

Then a list of options appears.

A user clicks an option.

When they click an option, two things occur.

First, the list of options disappears.

So that little kind of dropdown thing right there,

it goes away entirely.

In addition, the item clicked, appears in the box.

So if I had clicked on Red,

I would expect Red to display right there.

And that's it.

That's how I would describe this component step by step

and a user interacting with it.

Onto step number two,

we're gonna take a look at each of these steps,

categorize them as state or event handler.

Okay, here we go.

So remember, anytime user

sees something changed on the screen,

that's a sign that we need some state.

Anytime user commits some action,

that's a sign we need an event handler.

A user is going to click the dropdown

and they're going to click an option.

Once again, these are user interactions just like we had

when we first went through this design process previously.

So I'm gonna mark both those as needing an event handler.

Then we have content changing,

content changing and content changing.

So all those are signs that we need some state.

So I'll mark that like so, like so, and like so.

Next, we're gonna take a look at

each of those labeled steps.

We're gonna group two together,

any that look really similar or common in nature,

remove duplicates, and simplify the descriptions

as much as possible.

So here's our different steps that have been labeled.

First, a user up here is clicking the dropdown.

There's not really anything else like that.

Down here where user clicks an option,

that is still a click but they're clicking

on something completely and totally different.

So I think that this is not common to any other step really.

I think this is a standalone kind of step right here.

We probably just need an event handler to implement it.

The other event handler, this one right here,

is probably also gonna be a standalone.

It's definitely something we need.

It's not similar to any other part of this entire process,

so we probably really just need an event handler

for that thing as well.

So then how about our three pieces of state?

Well, we have two pieces right here

that look absolutely identical in nature.

We have a list of options appearing and disappearing.

Even though it is the opposite kind of interaction

something is appearing and disappearing,

they're clearly talking about hiding

and showing the exact same element on the screen.

So I think that these two things

should definitely be grouped together.

And then finally, a user is clicking on a item

and it is being, or it appears inside the box.

So that's kinda like a selection

that is appearing inside the box.

That is not similar to anything else inside of here,

so I don't think that needs to be group grouped up at all.

Okay, so there's our groups.

I'm going to remove the only duplicate.

The only duplicate is really that step right there

so I'm gonna delete it.

And then I'll go through

and I'm going to rewrite the description for each of these

and just make them as generalized as I possibly can.

So for the first one, click the dropdown.

I think that's already pretty general in nature

that really describes what's going on.

We are clicking the dropdown.

The second one also pretty general.

I don't think I can simplify that any further.

For the state right here, list of options appears.

A better way to write this or kind of more general in nature

would be to say menu opens and closes.

And then the last piece of state right here,

I think that again is kind of already general nature.

I could say something like an item can be selected.

That's kind of a little bit more descriptive and simple,

but, again, what I had before is still pretty good.

So in this case, we didn't really have to write,

rewrite these descriptions very much,

because each of them was already pretty simple

and straightforward.

Okay, so we have now finished up this first phase

and we've got a good idea of what state we need

and what event handlers we need.

So in total, this is kind of where we are at.

We need a state or a piece of state

to determine which item is selected.

We probably need a piece of state

to dictate whether or not the menu is open or closed.

And then we need an event handler

to deal with clicking on an individual option

and an event handler to deal with clicking on the dropdown.

Now onto a phase two.

This is where we're going to look at our mock-up.

We're gonna simplify it as much as possible.

We're going to replace the elements with text descriptions.

We are gonna skip over step six

because this component is so simple,

there's not really any variations here to think about,

so I'm not gonna worry about step six.

And then step seven,

we're gonna take those text descriptions

and remember this is where we do

kinda that little fun exercise

where we imagine we are writing a function

and we have to guess at what kind of argument we would need

to generate these text descriptions.

Remember, the goal of steps four, five, six and seven

is to really consider the state that we just came up with.

So we said that we were gonna have state

for an item being selected and a menu being open and closed.

And in steps four, five, six and seven,

we're gonna try to come up with a name and a type

for these two pieces of state.

That is the ultimate goal.

So step four, we're gonna take a look at our mockups.

We're going to remove any part

that is not changing over time.

So immediately, I know that the label at the top

is not changing.

Oops, just wanna delete the label.

I know the icon is not changing in any way.

And the text inside of this menu right here,

although it is appearing and disappearing,

the text itself is not changing.

So I'm gonna delete that.

It is really the presence of the dropdown itself

or this menu right here that is changing.

The box right there is opening and closing over time.

So now step five, we're going to imagine

that we are talking to another engineer

who is very familiar with this component.

Maybe we are talking to them on the phone

so they cannot see our screen

and we need to describe to them

over the phone in very simple terms

what you and I are currently seeing with our components.

So how would you tell another engineer

about this thing right here?

Assuming that they are pretty familiar with it,

I might tell another engineer that I see menu closed

and no option selected.

So that's how I would describe it very simply.

With this one I would say menu open, no option selected.

And then over here, menu closed, 'A little spicy' selected.

Onto step number seven,

we're going to skip over step number six.

Remember, step six is where we would normally take a look

at a variation on our component.

In our case, the dropdown is rather simple in nature

so I don't think we need to consider any variations.

So we'll go directly to step seven.

Step seven, remember, this is the confusing one.

This is where we are going to imagine

that we are writing out some imaginary function,

and we need to return basically the strings

that we just came up with during the previous step.

So menu closed, menu open, menu closed, no option selected,

no option selected, a little spicy selected.

The ultimate goal is step number seven,

as confusing as it is, is to decide upon a name

and a type for these two pieces of state.

In our case, we know that this first piece of state

is gonna be all about whether or not

the menu is open or closed.

And the other piece of state is all about whether or not

an item is really selected.

So we're going to repeat step seven.

We're gonna do it two times.

The first time we do it, we're just gonna try to figure out

an appropriate name and type for this piece of state.

The second time we're gonna try

to figure out a name and type for that piece of state.

Okay, let's focus on the first go through

and I'm gonna write out the solution

over here inside my editor.

You do not have to write it out.

I'm just doing this for demonstration purposes.

So I know that I make this entire process

seem kind of weird and mysterious,

but ultimately what we are trying to do here

is extremely simple and straightforward.

We need to provide an argument

and an implementation to this function right here

so that whenever we call it in one case given some argument,

we're going to get back a string of menu closed.

And when we call it with a different argument,

we're going to get back a string of menu open.

There are a ton of different ways we could implement this

and please don't overthink this at all.

It is incredibly simple.

What argument can we put in right here

that will allow us to write out some logic

to in one case return menu closed

and in the other menu open?

One possibility is to put in false and true.

Then inside of our function,

we could receive that argument name something like isOpen.

I think that's a very reasonable name.

And then inside of our function we could say,

if isOpen is true, return menu open,

otherwise return menu closed.

That is one possible answer.

And that's it. That's all we have to do.

What should these types be, what should we call it,

and then kind of guess at a possible implementation.

So now if we ran this code,

if I took all this and ran it in my browser,

this right here,

that would definitely give us back menu closed.

There's no two ways about it.

And if we ran this,

it would definitely give us back menu open.

No two ways about it.

So as simple as this process right here seems,

what has it told us?

What have we learned?

Well, it means that this piece of state right here

that we're trying to design,

we could call this thing something like isOpen

and we can have it be of type Boolean.

So if we create a piece of state called isOpen

and we have it be a Boolean,

that would be an entirely perfect and appropriate design

for this first piece of state right here.

And we could use that piece of state

to dictate whether or not our dropdown is open or closed.

That's it.

Okay.

Now we're gonna repeat the same process

for this other piece of state, same thing.

So we're using this other piece of state

to decide whether or not an item is selected.

And if one is, which item is selected?

This go through

is gonna be just a little bit more complicated.

So let's give it a shot.

So same process here, we're gonna try to figure out

what argument we could pass in that will allow us to,

in some cases, return no item selected,

and then in other cases, something like a little spicy.

And once again, don't overthink this.

So here is one possible solution.

There are many.

This is just one.

We could put in null if nothing is is selected.

And then if something is selected,

how could we decide exactly what label we want to return?

Well, we could put in right here the entire options object.

So I could put in something like ops at one.

So that's the entire object right there

with a label of a little spicy.

Then I can call that argument something like selected option

or maybe just selected for short.

And now we could put in a very simple comparison in here,

a very simple check.

We could say, if we did not get selected.

So if selected is falsy, if it is null

that's what we're really checking right here.

If there is no selected, then return no item selected.

Otherwise, if we get past that if statement,

so we could honestly just do an else case here.

So if something is selected, if we got an object for it,

return selected.label and that's it.

So again, we don't have to overthink this part at all.

So again, what has this told us?

What have we learned here?

Well, we have learned that a very reasonable name

for this piece of state would be something like selected

or alternatively something like selectedOption.

Either one is totally appropriate.

And what should its type be?

What's type should be

either the same structure as the options object.

So I'll say, so kinda like an option object.

So that's gonna be something with a label

and a value property or it can be a null.

So if we get an option,

that means that the user has selected something,

they've clicked on some option.

Otherwise if it's null,

that means no option has been selected yet

and we should display the text that says nothing

or no option selected or whatever else is appropriate.

Okay, so now let's summarize where we are currently at.

So we've got our two pieces of state up here.

An item can be selected.

That's gonna be controlled by some piece of state

that we're going to call selected,

and it's gonna be either an option object or null.

To control whether or not the menu is open or closed,

we're gonna call that a piece of state of isOpen

and it's gonna be a Boolean.

Then we're going to have to name

these two event handlers as well.

Naming the event handlers is always way easier,

so we're not gonna go through an entire process for it.

So whenever a user clicks on an option,

we could call it something like handle option click

or something like that.

But when user clicks on an option,

what they're really doing is selecting something.

When user clicks on one

of the different options in the dropdown,

they are trying to change that selected piece of state.

So I might call that event handler

something like handleSelect.

That might be a reasonable name.

And then clicking the dropdown.

So that's whenever a user clicks the dropdown

to open the menu up.

We could call that, again, something like handleClick.

But if we wanna give it a more descriptive name,

it could be something like handleToggleOpen

or something like that.

That's a little bit long, little bit complex.

Maybe just handleClick is fine.

But definitely we've got some flexibility there.

We could think about the name a little bit more.

Okay, so there we go.

That is our state design.

Now, I know this entire process so long.

It's taken us forever, right?

Taking a long time,

but this design right here, it is rock solid.

If you went to a professional project

and created a dropdown with this kind of design,

everyone's gonna be happy.

Your component's gonna work really well.

Having said that, one last step, we need to decide

where to locate the state and these event handlers.

So we've got our selected piece of state and isOpen.

And then we've got a callback

of something like handleSelect,

another one called like handleClick.

And as you can kind of guess,

these two event handlers are very closely coupled

with these two pieces of state.

So wherever we define the selected piece of state,

we should probably define this handleSelect dropdown

in the same location.

And wherever we define the isOpen piece of state,

we should probably define the handleClick function

in the same location as well.

So we need to decide now

where we are going to define selected and isOpen.

And I put right here string or null.

That should be, or not object, but option.

That's better.

So where should we define the state?

Don't forget the rule we're going to decide or make use of

to decide where to define the state is,

does any other component need to know about the state?

If so, we're going to define that state inside the parent.

Otherwise, if no one else needs to know about the state,

we're going to define it in the child.

And without a doubt, the easiest way to answer this question

is to consider some kind of variation

of your component or your application.

So I'm going to imagine some other application

that might make use of this dropdown component

really quickly and use that other app

to kind of answer this question.

Okay, so here's a little example application

that might eventually one day make use of our dropdown.

We're going to imagine

that we have a kind of shopping cart right here.

The shopping cart is going to be comprised

of multiple different components,

and I've got the component hierarchy on the right hand side.

So at the very top is the app component

that's gonna show ShoppingCartPage.

So that ShoppingCartPage component

is presumably gonna basically be in charge

of displaying all the content on the screen.

I'll then imagine that the top half right here

is going to be displayed by ProductList.

The bottom part down here

where we show the total of all the items

will be displayed by a component called CartTotal.

And ProductList, which is displaying all this stuff,

it's definitely showing two dropdown components.

So ProductList might have two dropdowns

inside of it eventually.

So now take a look at this mockup right here

really, really carefully.

Inside this shopping cart, we have an item.

A user is selecting a quantity and we have a price per item.

So if I have 10 pairs of pants at $50 each,

that is $500 total.

And if I have one pair of shoes at $25, that is $25 total.

And then down here at the bottom,

I want to show the total of all these different items.

And that right there,

the total is being displayed by the CartTotal component.

So the CartTotal component

is probably gonna have to figure out

or understand how many items

the user is currently trying to purchase,

because it needs to display the total.

CartTotal has to understand

what the current value of this dropdown is.

There's no two ways about it.

So in this case, without a doubt,

some other part of our application besides just the dropdown

needs to understand what this selected piece of state is.

What is its current value?

What number is being displayed right now?

What number did a user click on?

So because some other part of my application

needs to understand about this piece of state,

I should define it inside of some parent component.

In this case, we probably define it

inside of shopping cart page.

We won't go into too much detail on that for right now,

but ultimately it's definitely clear

that some other component needs to know

about this piece of state,

so I should not define selected inside the dropdown.

So selected should be defined

inside of some parent component

and then passed down into dropdown as a prop.

How about isOpen?

In this mockup that we're looking at,

is there any other component on the screen here whatsoever

that is reasonably ever going to care

about whether or not a dropdown is open?

I don't think so.

I don't think there's any possibility

that any other component ever caress

about whether or not a dropdown is open.

So that is definitely a good candidate for a piece of state

that should be defined inside the dropdown.

Okay, so at long last, after another one

of these grueling design processes, we're done.

We've got our design.

We know our different piece of state, their types.

We know the callbacks

we know where all the state is gonna be defined,

where all the callbacks are going to be defined.

This looks good.

This was definitely the hardest part this entire component.

There's still one challenge we're gonna look at,

but it's pretty much smooth sailing from here.

So we're gonna come back in just a moment

and start building honestly the vast majority

of this component in one rather quick go.
201:
Instructor: We've got a pretty rock solid design here.

So let's start working on the implementation.

We're gonna first begin on the dropdown component itself

and we'll eventually go back up to the parent component

and define the selected piece of state.

Make sure we pass a couple of things down as props.

Okay, so inside the dropdown,

I'm gonna first take a look at this options prop.

Remember that's going to be an array

of different options objects.

Each of those objects will have a label and value.

We want to eventually list those out

on the screen to the user whenever that menu opens up

or essentially whenever a user clicks on our dropdown.

So we need to take that list of options,

map over them and probably return each option

so a user can eventually click on them.

Let's get started there.

So I'm gonna create a new variable called renderedOptions.

This will be options.map.

I'm gonna take a look at each individual option

and return a div that has the options label.

We are creating a list of elements,

which means we need to assign a key prop

to this top level element right here.

Now in this case, our key prop,

traditionally we use the ID property if one is available

off of each object inside the array

that we are mapping over.

In this case, our options objects,

which we are currently defining inside the app

only have a label and a value.

There is no ID.

Usually we only get IDs when we are fetching data

from some kind of database.

So in this case, these are options

that are really just defined inside of our application.

So they're just plain is not an ID available

but when we designate a key, we don't have to use an id.

The only requirements for a key are that we have some value

that is consistent and doesn't really change over time.

So I think that out of each of these options objects

we could probably just use the value property right here.

It is always unique, it's never duplicated

and it's not going to change over time

and that makes it a really good candidate for being a key.

So back inside of dropdown.js

I'll find the div right there.

I'm gonna add in a key prop of option.value.

Next up I'm going to remove the text that says dropdown...

Right there.

I'm going to put in a div that says Select.

So that's gonna be where

a user eventually clicks to open the dropdown up.

And then after that I'll put in

another div that says renderedOptions.

If we go back into the browser

we should now see select red, green, blue.

And I've got nothing inside my console,

so no errors or anything like that.

Okay, so next up we are going to make sure

that this div right here is usually hidden by default.

And then whenever user clicks on that div that says select

we're going to toggle the visibility of that div.

We're going to hide it or show it.

So this is where this isOpen piece of state

is going to come into play.

We're going to define that piece of state.

It's gonna be a Boolean.

By default it will be false.

And that will make our dropdown start off as being closed.

We'll then define an event handler called handleClick

and we're going to assign that click event handler

to this div right here.

So whenever user clicks on that div,

we're gonna toggle our piece of state.

That will cause the second div to be hidden or shown.

Okay, let's get to it.

At the very top

I'm going to import useState from react.

We'll then define our state of IsOpen and set IsOpen.

I will default it to be false.

So again, it's gonna start off as being closed.

I'll then make my event handler.

So I'll call it just handleClick.

Could probably think of a more clever name

but I think handleClick will work just fine.

So now whenever a user clicks on that div right there

we will update IsOpen by calling setIsOpen

and we don't really want to just set it to true per se

because if a user clicks on select right there

to open the dropdown

and then they click on select again,

that's kind of a sign

that the user wants to close the dropdown.

So I think what we really want to do here

is change IsOpen to be the opposite

of whatever it currently is.

So we could do that with something like not IsOpen.

Now when we look at this code right here really carefully

you'll notice that we are updating a piece of state

and we are deciding on what its new value should be based

upon what its current value is.

And you might recall that just a couple videos ago

we had a super long discussion

around functional updates of state.

So because we are updating our state

and its new value is dependent upon the old value

technically we would want to look at

doing a functional update.

So we'd pass in a function

that would receive the current value of IsOpen

and then we would give or return

not current IsOpen.

So that is technically like,

the most correct way of doing this.

However, this is only going to be an issue

if a user clicks on select right there incredibly quickly

multiple times in a row.

So if we left this with just what we had a moment ago

so not IsOpen, that would honestly work just fine

in the vast, vast, vast majority of scenarios.

So if we just do this totally fine.

If we want to use the functional style,

totally fine as well.

I'm gonna stick with the simple style.

So I'll say not IsOpen.

So this is technically not a hundred percent correct,

regardless it's gonna be totally fine

in just the vast majority of scenarios.

Okay, so that's handleClick.

We are now going to take that handler

and assign it to that div right there.

So we'll say onClick call, handleClick.

And then finally we need to make sure

that we hide and show that div

based upon the value of IsOpen.

So we can use another one

of those JavaScript Boolean expressions.

So I'm gonna wrap this thing

with curly braces and then we'll say IsOpen and.

So now if IsOpen is true,

we're going to get back that div

and it will be displayed on the screen.

If IsOpen is false

this entire expression will evaluate to be false

and nothing will be displayed.

So let's save this and try it out.

Okay, if I refresh, nothing's going to be visible

or I should say the menu is not visible by default.

But if I click on select, it opens up.

If I click it again, it goes away.

Very good.

Okay, so that's a good start

but we still have a couple things to take care of

notably around selection of different elements.
202:
Instructor: The next thing I would like to take care of

is to make sure that whenever user

selects one of these options or they click on them,

we close the dropdown.

We're not gonna worry about actually

updating the currently selected item just yet,

let's just make sure we can just plain close the dropdown.

Okay, so here we go.

Each of those divs we want to watch for a click event on

is rendered inside this mapping function.

So I'm going to add in an onClick handler to that thing.

Whenever a user clicks on this div,

I'm going to call a function

that I will define or call handleOptionClick

and then I'm going to define handleOptionClick out here.

I'll then put in a console log inside there and say,

I should close.

I'll save this, flip back over.

Now if I open the dropdown and click on red,

I will see that console log.

If I click on green, I see the console log.

So it's definitely working as expected.

So now here's a question.

How would I close the dropdown?

Well, we've got this piece of state called isOpen.

If we want to change whether or not the dropdown is open,

we're just gonna update the value of that piece of state.

So to forcibly close the dropdown

we could remove the console.log,

and replace it with setIsOpen with false.

So now if we save this,

open up the dropdown, click on red, it's going to be closed.

Okay, simple enough.

So now the next thing we need to take care of

whenever a user clicks on one of those options,

whenever they click on a div,

and we run this event handler,

there's actually two things we're going to want to do

inside of here.

We not only want to close dropdown,

we're also going to need to know what option

did the user click on?

Because we're going to eventually

from inside this event handler,

update the currently selected option,

we need to update the piece of state that says

here's the option that is currently selected.

So inside of this function right here,

we need to figure out what the option was.

Now this is an identical problem to

what we ran into just a little bit ago

on the accordion application.

We are building up an event handler

and assigning it to a div

that is being created inside of a mapping function.

And we want to communicate some information

from inside the mapping function to an event handler

that is defined out here.

If we just try to receive this first argument right now,

it would be the event object,

because we are passing off this function

directly into onClick.

So the div is gonna call this function,

and when it calls it, it's gonna give us the event object,

we could prove that very easily,

I could do a console.log of event,

and now if I click on one of these things,

I'll see the event object.

So that's not really what we want,

it's great that there is an event object,

but I don't really care about it.

I wanna know what option a user just clicked on.

So remember how we solved this

back on the accordion application.

Rather than passing in our handler directly to onClick,

we're going to instead put in a wrapped version of it.

So I'm gonna put in an arrow function right here

and then whenever this arrow function gets called

by the div, when the user clicks on it eventually,

we're going to invoke handleOptionClick

and pass in the option.

So now if I save this and I still have

this console.log in here, the event is not,

or this argument is not very well labeled now,

it shouldn't be called event,

'cause it's no longer actually the event,

we will rename it in just a moment.

But just to show you this works, if I now click on red,

I get label red, value red, if I click on green,

I get green, green, and of course blue, blue.

Okay, so once again, not gonna go into

any more detail on this

'cause you spent a ton of time on it back on the accordion,

but it's the exact same idea here.

We are doing our mapping function.

We're going to end up creating multiple copies

of the exact same arrow function.

Different copies are created for every object

inside that options array.

So when we eventually click on a div,

we're gonna find one of those different arrow functions

that gets created. we're gonna call it,

and that's gonna invoke handleOptionClick

with the appropriate option.

Okay, so now last thing.

We shouldn't really call this argument event,

'cause it's not the event, I will call it option instead.

And just to confirm, yep, now we still get the option.

Very good.

Okay, so now we're gonna go back up to the parent

in just a moment.

We're going to define the selected piece of state

inside there.

And whenever a user clicks on an option,

we need to make sure we update that selected piece of state.
203:
Instructor: The last thing we have to take care of

is implementing this selected piece

of state inside the parent.

We're also going to implement the

handleSelect event handler.

Now, you might be kinda curious,

why does this piece of state exist?

You know, we went through that kinda long design process,

but why does this state exist?

What is event handler really doing for us?

Well, it turns out

that we are really just following a pattern

that we already learned about earlier on inside the course.

So let me give you a quick reminder

on something we covered on the images application.

It was handling text inputs.

Remember, we handled a text input

in kind of a rather weird and strange way.

And in the process we created something called

a controlled component, or controlled input.

And we went through the five steps you see right here.

Just to help you remember exactly what we did,

we had a setup that looked like this.

So we had our search bar component

which was the parent component,

and we were trying to show a plain text input.

We did not handle this text input

in a way that you might be familiar with

if you're coming from a more traditional

JavaScript background.

Instead, remember we deal with text inputs in React

in kind of this weird fashion.

We defined a piece of state inside of search bar

and we called it term.

That was supposed to be our search term.

We then passed that piece of state

down to the value prop of the text input.

And remember the key part here,

whatever we pass down as the value prop

React is gonna take that value, that prop right there,

and it's gonna forcibly update the text

inside the text input.

We also pass down an event handler

that was called handleChange,

and we pass it down under the prop of onChange.

So then things got really interesting

whenever a user changed the text inside the input.

As soon as that user changed that text,

so they would generate essentially some new search term

by typing something into the input,

we needed to communicate that back

up to the parent component.

So we needed this information to flow back up.

To communicate that information into the parent,

we called handleChange.

I should really kind of be pointing an arrow over here.

So we called the prop that was passed down handleChange,

and that essentially communicated this new value

up into the parent component.

Inside of handleChange, we updated our term piece of state.

Because we updated state, the search bar re-rendered itself,

and a new value, a new search term,

then flowed down into the text input.

Because we passed down a new value prop,

the text input, or the actual text displayed inside of it,

was automatically updated.

So that was the entire process we went through.

It was a little bit confusing.

It was a little bit weird, but remember the entire goal

of it was really to manage the text input

through the state system.

So if we ever needed to know

what value was inside the text input,

we could take a look at the term piece of state.

And if we ever needed to

change the value inside the text input,

we would just change our term piece of state.

And that was it. That was the entire goal.

Using the state system

made it really easy to read the value inside the input

and change it if we needed to.

So what does this have to do with the dropdown?

Everything.

We want to treat the dropdown in the exact same way.

If we can make sure we set up our component

in the exact same fashion,

then inside of our parent component

we could always know exactly

what the user has selected inside the dropdown

by looking at a piece of state,

and we could forcibly change the value in the dropdown

by updating that state.

So here's what we are doing.

Here's our parent component.

For us, it is the app.

Here is the dropdown component.

So we are defining this selection piece of state

and handleSelect.

We are passing selection down as a prop called selection.

And inside of our dropdown component,

when we receive this prop,

we're going to use it to decide

what text to display inside the dropdown.

So that text right there.

We're using it to decide what to show for the label.

Then whenever a user changes the dropdown,

whenever they open it up and click on an option,

we're going to deal with that

by calling this onSelect prop inside the dropdown.

So user is going to click on some option.

So that's gonna be some new selection

that they are generating,

and we're gonna communicate that back up

into the parent component

by calling the handleSelect event handler.

So that's gonna update our data inside the parent.

We're gonna have a new piece of state.

The parent is going to re-render itself.

And that new piece of state is gonna flow down

into the dropdown.

And then the dropdown is gonna show

whatever that newly selected option was.

So again, completely identical to the text input.
204:
Instructor: Let's work on this implementation.

To get started we're going to go into our parent component

and define the selection piece of state

and the handleSelect event handler.

Our parent component is the App.jss file

to define a piece of state inside of here

we will begin by importing useState from React at the top.

I will then create a piece of state called selection

and get the setter to go along with it.

And by default I'm gonna have its value be null.

It is null to indicate

that by default nothing has been selected.

Remember we came up with the type

for this piece of state during our design process.

So we had said that selected,

this piece of state right here was gonna be

either an option object,

so one of those objects

outta the options array that has a label and a value.

Or it could be null and it would be null anytime

there is no item currently selected.

So that's why we are defaulting it to be null.

Next we'll make our handleSelect event handler,

and we're going to assume

that this thing is going to be called

with some newly selected option.

So that is gonna be the option object

that the user just clicked on.

And then inside the event handler

we will update our selection piece of state.

So everything that we are doing right here

is exactly what we are seeing on this diagram.

Whenever a user selects an option,

whenever they click on a new one,

we need to communicate that backup

into the parent component and get it to show up

inside the handleSelect event handler.

Then inside of handleSelect

we're going to update the selection piece of state.

So that is what we just implemented.

We are receiving the newly selected option

and then we are updating the selection piece of state.

Alright so now we're going to take that piece of state

and the event handler and pass them down

into our Dropdown components.

So I'm going to pass down selection

as a prop called selection

and the handleSelect event handler,

I'm gonna pass it down as a prop called onSelect.

Alright, I'm gonna save that.

We'll then go over to the Dropdown.js file,

over here I'm going to receive those two props

we are now passing down.

So they are selection and onSelect.

Then to get started,

our event handler right here

handleOptionClick,

we are doing two things inside there.

First we are closing the Dropdown

and then we figured out

what option the user just clicked on.

So this right here,

that is the option object that the user clicked on.

That is the object that one right there,

that we want to communicate back up into handleSelect.

So we can call handleSelect by invoking the onSelect prop,

onSelect is what we called the prop when we passed it down

or what we call the event handler,

when we pass it down into the Dropdown component

it is the handleSelect function.

So instead of doing the console.log right here,

we will instead call onSelect

and pass in the option object.

Alright then last step,

we need to actually make use

of the currently selected item in some way.

So we need to use this selection prop.

Again that is our option object

or possibly it might be null.

So we want to show that thing's text

in place of Select right there.

So we don't always want to show Select...,

we only want to show it if the selection prop is null.

So selections can be either an object or null.

So to handle this right above the return statement

I will declare a new variable,

the let keyword,

I'll just call it content.

And by default I'll have it be Select.

I'll then check to see

if a selection object was passed down.

So this is gonna help us handle the case

in which selection is null.

If selection is null,

if we do not have a selection,

we are not gonna enter the if statement.

If we do enter the if statement,

if we did pass down a selection object,

then we will update the content variable

to be selection.label.

So by default show Select,

if we pass down a selection,

then update it to be the label.

And then finally we can show content

inside that first div like so.

Okay I'm gonna save all this.

I think I have an error right now

so I probably made a typo.

Okay definitely did,

call this thing handleSelection

back over here inside of App.js

it was actually called handleSelect not handleSelection.

That was a typo on my part.

So it should not be handleSelection right there

it should be just handleSelect.

Okay, that's better.

So now by default we see select right here.

If I click it to open up the menu I can then click on red.

Now I have a selected option object,

so I'm going to enter into the if statement right here

and I'm going to update content

to be that object's label property.

And so now I see

that object's labeled property on the screen.

I could do the same thing for green, blue,

and so on.

So that's it.

Now that is the base behavior of our Dropdown

but there are a couple of improvements we're going to make

to it in addition to a little bit of styling.

So still just a little bit of work to get through.
205:
Instructor: There are a couple of very small improvements

I would like to make to our dropdown component.

The first one

is rewriting this little block of logic right here.

So once again, we are declaring a variable called content.

We give it a string of Select by default,

and if we did pass down a selection prop,

if it is not null, then we're going to update content

to be the selected options label property.

Writing this all out just takes a couple of lines of code.

It turns out we can write this all out much more concisely

if we use a fancy little bit of JavaScript syntax,

and I want to show you what that syntax is in this video.

So I'm gonna first give you a quick demonstration

over at my browser console on this new little bit of syntax.

To get started, I'm going to make a brand new variable

with the let keyword called colors,

and I'll give it red and green.

Naturally, I can look at the number of elements

inside that array with colors.length,

but common little problem.

Let's imagine that for some reason,

we accidentally assigned null to the variable of colors.

Now if I try to look up the length property,

when colors is null, we can get an error message.

Very classic error message that you see all the time.

Says, "Cannot read properties of null."

Another very common error message that we see

that is very similar

is if we try to look up properties on undefined.

So if colors is undefined,

and we try to access colors.length,

we're gonna see a very similar error message.

So we can use a fancy little bit of syntax

to kinda get around that error message.

We can use a fancy little bit of syntax

to check to see if a variable is null or undefined,

and if it is,

then we'll get back some kind of default value instead.

So here it is.

Here's the fancy bit of syntax.

Colors is still undefined.

I'm gonna write out colors?.length.

So the question mark is the fancy part.

This is going to check to see if colors is defined or not.

If it is not defined, then this entire expression

is going to evaluate to be simply undefined,

and most importantly,

we're not going to get an error message.

So I can run this and I get undefined.

If I do not have the question mark, I get an error.

So question mark is just checking to see

if colors is defined.

The question mark can also work if colors is null.

So now I can do colors?.length and I get undefined.

If I do not have the question mark,

I get an error, which I don't want.

So now we can mix this question mark behavior

together with a little bit of a Boolean expression,

which we learned about a little bit ago

to print out some content right there

much more concisely than what we currently have.

So here's what we could do.

We can say colors?.length or 100.

If if the color's object is not defined or if it is null,

then we're going to return undefined right there

from that entire expression, so something like that.

Because we have the or symbol right here,

we're then going to return the first truthy value

and the first truthy value is 100.

So if I run that, I would get 100,

and I can do the equivalent with the question mark,

and I get 100.

Okay, so we're gonna use this kind of technique

to print out the label right there.

So I'm gonna delete everything you see on 25, 26, 27, 28.

I'm gonna go into this div, and inside the curly braces,

I'm going to remove content

and replace it with

selection?.label or Select, dot, dot, dot.

So now if selection is null,

then that's going to evaluate to be undefined,

and we will get just the text Select.

Otherwise, if selection is defined, if it is an object,

then we're going to print out its labeled property,

so it might be like the string Red,

and now we're going to get the first truthy value,

which would be Red.

And that's it, so let's test this out.

I'm gonna save this.

Back over to the browser.

If I refresh, I now see select.

I can click it, click on Red, Green, Blue.

Everything works.

Alright, so good little improvement.

We're gonna use that technique quite a bit

throughout the remainder of the course.
206
Instructor: I would like to make another change

to the dropdown component.

This change is not required,

but it's gonna help us understand

a common community convention

that you're going to see on a lot of professional projects.

So as a reminder,

when we were going through our design process,

we came up with a name for this selected piece of state.

We decided to call it selected.

We also realized we needed an event handler

and we're going to call it handle select.

And that absolutely positively made sense.

When we then realized that we had to pass that state

and that event handler down to the dropdown,

I pretty much decided to call those props.

So the names

of the variables that the dropdown expects to receive,

I decided to call them on select and selection.

And again, totally made sense.

We could write out this code on a professional project,

everything would be A-okay, no problem whatsoever.

But there is a very common pattern you're gonna see

on a lot of professional projects.

And it's all about the names of these props right here.

So it's specifically how we receive this prop

inside the dropdown and this prop inside of selection.

It has nothing to do with what we call the state

and the event handler inside the parent.

Those can always be called whatever we want.

So here's the pattern.

We are currently making a form control component.

A form control component is any kind

of component where a user is entering in a kind of value.

So something like a text area,

text input, drop down, radio buttons, checkbox, and so on.

Many form control components are going

to follow this very common pattern.

And it's all about what we name these props right here.

The common pattern is that we pass

down the prop that tells the component

what its current value is under a name of value.

So instead of selection, we would call this value,

if we want to follow this pattern.

And when we pass down a callback,

that's going to be called whenever user changes the value

inside of that form control component,

we commonly would call it on change.

So again, this pattern has nothing to do

with what we are calling the piece

of state and the event handler inside the parent.

It's just talking about the names

of the props that we are passing down into the child.

So you might be curious, "Why do we have these names?

'Cause the ones we had before were completely reasonable.

And it described what the dropdown did."

It very clearly told us that we have to pass

down something for indicating the current selection

and that there was gonna be an event handler

that was called whenever user selected some new option.

So those names were totally fine, absolutely reasonable.

Why would we ever want to change them?

Well, it's really just all about being consistent.

So let's imagine that we've got some parent component

up here and it is showing a wide variety

of different child components that are all form controls.

So again, components that are going to show some stuff

on the screen that the user can type in,

drag, select, whatever.

If we had a organic design process,

so if we decided to just call all these things

with whatever names first came to mind,

we might eventually have a bunch

of different prop names that are completely different

for all these otherwise similar components.

So our dropdown might expect to receive a prop called

on select and selection.

A text input might expect to receive on change in value.

A checkbox might expect to receive on check

and is checked and so on.

So the only problem here is

that the names of these props are just hard to remember.

That's it, that's honestly it.

It's just hard to remember all the different names

of these props across these otherwise similar components.

So we can improve this by just saying, "Okay, you know what?

For all these different components that all are going

to deal with the user input in some way,

we're going to expect to always receive a prop called value

in every single one of them."

And this value prop is gonna tell that child component

what its current value is.

So what the currently selected item is for a dropdown,

what the current text is for the input,

whether or not the thing is checked for a checkbox,

what the currently selected button is for radio buttons,

what the currently or current position

of a slider is for some kind of range slider.

And then anytime a user changes these things,

well we're always going to call a prop called on change.

So on change, on change, on change, on change, on change.

If we follow this pattern,

it just makes it really easy for us

in the future to remember what the prop names are

for all these similar components.

So again, not required.

We could absolutely stick with our current names

of selection and on select, totally fine,

but you're gonna see this pattern quite a bit.

So I would like to refactor our code and make use

of this pattern because I would like to follow convention

and I would like you to see it as well.

And also just doing refactoring in general

is always good practice.

So let's refactor our dropdown.

We're gonna change the on select

and the selection prop names to be on change

and value instead.

It should be really, really easy.

To get started, I will go over to app.js.

I'm gonna find where we create dropdown right here.

So now instead of passing down a prop called selection,

we're gonna pass down a prop called value.

And instead of on select,

we'll pass down a prop called on change.

So now if another engineer saw this,

they would instantly understand,

"Oh, okay, the current value of the dropdown,

the currently selected item is value.

And chances are anytime a user changes the selection,

whatever I pass down into the on change prop is going

to be called."

Then inside of dropdown, we are no longer receiving props

of selection and on select.

They are now value and on change.

So then we're going to go through our component very quickly

and make one or two updates.

The first one will be inside of handle option click,

no longer do we have an on select.

It is now called on change.

And then down towards the bottom,

we no longer have selection right there it is now value

and that's it.

So let's save this, flip back over, quick test.

I can still open, select something,

everything works just fine.

Okay, so that's it.

Once again, not required change,

what we came up with our design process are these kind

of reasonable names

of something like on select and selection, totally fine,

but very common to see the props

with names of value and on change.

coding challenge:
Form Controls - Prop Naming Convention
You are working on an app that has a user input their age using a range slider input.

Another engineer has already created a component called Slider.  It shows a slider when used.  The other engineer has told you that this component expects to receive props that all normal 'form control' components would receive.

You have defined a piece of state and an event handler, but now you need to pass them into the Slider.

Update the <Slider /> tag, passing in the age and handleAgeChange variables as props. It is up to you to figure out what the props should be called.

Hint:

The slider won't work until you finish the exercise

You only need to change one line of code in the App.js file.

The Slider components follows community convention for prop naming

The community convention for prop names around 'form control' components is usually 'onChange' and 'value'.

import React from 'react';
import { Slider } from './Slider';
// Udemy's code editor is a little weird... 
// We do *not* need an 'import {useState}' line

function App() {
  const [age, setAge] = useState(50);
  
  const handleAgeChange = (newAge) => {
    setAge(newAge);
  };
  
  return <Slider />
}

const useState = React.useState;
export default App;

// You do *not* need to change this file
// You do *not* need to change this file

import React from 'react';

function Slider({ value, onChange }) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Current Age: {value}</h1>
      <input type="range" min={1} max={120} value={value || 50} onChange={(e) => onChange && onChange(e.target.value)} />
    </div>
  );
}

// Don't change the export
export { Slider };

207
Instructor: Let's go through a quick solution

to this exercise.

In this exercise, we have a slider right here

that a user is going to use to select their age.

We've already created an app component.

We've already got a slider component, which is responsible

for showing the slider itself, and we've created a piece

of state to keep track of the age and an event

handler to be called whenever the age is changed as well.

The problem is we don't really know how to take this state

and this event handler

and communicate it down into the slider.

We don't know what the prop names are supposed to be.

We could open up the source code for the slider component.

That would be inside "slider.js",

but we have been told by another engineer

that the slider has been wired up to expect to

receive all the props that any standard form

control component would receive.

So that is a sign to you and I that

the slider component expects to

receive a prop called "value" and a prop called "onChange".

So we're going to take our state

and our event handler and wire those up or pass those

down into the slider as props called

"value" and "onChange".

So on the slider element, I'll write in,

"value" is going to be age and "onChange",

I want to call the handle age change function.

Okay.

So now I can see at current age 50 over here,

I can drag the slider and change the age.

Very good, that means we probably wired

this thing up successfully.

I'm going to click on "check solution" at the bottom right

just to make sure my tests are working.

As usual it's going to take a little bit too long.

Eventually...

There we go.

Solution is correct.