289

Instructor: In this section we're gonna take a look

at a hook that we have not yet seen before.

The hook is called useReducer.

This is another hook that is built directly into React.

Its goal is very similar to useState.

It creates some state inside of a component,

and whenever that state changes,

the component is going to re-render.

So we can think of this hook

as being kind of similar to useState.

The reason that we're gonna cover this hook at all is

that it uses some patterns that you're going to see very,

very often in the world of Redux.

In fact, learning Redux in general is much easier

if you understand how useReducer works

because there are some very similar techniques

between useReducer and Redux.

So that's the real goal here.

We're going to learn useReducer to

make understanding Redux a little bit easier down the line.

So here's our plan.

We're going to go and refactor the CounterPage

component that we put together previously.

Now I know counters are super boring in the world of React,

but to be honest with you,

it is just a fantastic, very simple example that's

gonna highlight some particular aspects of useReducer.

We're gonna make a couple of changes to the component.

So we're gonna first begin by refactoring it to make use

of useState without any custom hooks or anything like that.

We're also gonna add in another small feature or two

to the CounterPage.

After that, we're then going to refactor the component

to make use of this new hook called useReducer.

So let me show you how we're going to change

our counter component.

Right now the CounterPage only has

a single Increment button.

We're going to make sure there is both

an Increment button and a Decrement button.

We're also gonna add in a little form to the bottom.

A user can use this form to add a whole bunch

to the current count with one click.

So user is gonna type into this input right here,

something like 60, and then click on the button

that says Add It.

And when they click that button,

we're gonna take 60 and add it onto the current count.

So we would end up with 70.

And at the same time we're going to empty out

whatever user had typed into the input.

Now to add all this stuff into the form at the bottom,

we're definitely going to need to add

some additional state to our component.

So I think that we're going to continue to have a piece

of state called count.

The component already has a piece of state called count,

but to keep track of whatever user types in that text input,

we're gonna add in an additional piece

of state called valueToAdd.

In addition to this new piece of state,

we'll also need some event handlers.

So we'll implement an event handler called handleChange

to deal with the user type inside there,

and an event handler called handleSubmit to deal

with the user submitting this overall form.

Now just to reiterate, the entire goal here

is to first refactor out the custom hook we had put together

and then implement all the stuff using useState.

And then we're going to refactor our component again

and add in useReducer.

So we'll be able to compare and contrast the differences

between useState and useReducer very easily.
290
Instructor: To get started,

I'm gonna find my pages directory,

and find the CounterPage component inside there.

The CounterPage is currently making use

of a custom hook we had put together a little bit ago,

so I don't want to use any custom hooks anymore,

this is not for any particular reason,

it is just to make sure the implementation

of use reducer is super clear.

So I'm going to delete the use of that custom hook,

I'm gonna delete the import for the custom hook,

and then I'm going to re-implement

the very basic counter behavior using useState.

So at the very top I will import useState from React.

I will then define this count piece of state.

And remember our component

is going to receive a prop of initialCount

and that's going to represent the initial starting value

of the count.

So I'm gonna pass in initialCount to useState.

On the mock-ups I showed you just a moment ago,

remember we want to have both an increment

and a decrement button.

Right now we only have increment,

so I'm gonna add in a second button.

The second one, I'm going to give it

an onClick event handler of decrement,

and I'll change the text to decrement as well.

I'll then implement the increment

and decrement event handlers.

So I will make increment,

and whenever this thing is called,

I'm going to update the count piece of state

to be count plus one.

So we'll do setCount(count + 1).

I'll then make decrement as well.

And as you guess,

this will be setCount(count - 1).

Alright, let's save this and do a quick test.

Back over inside the browser,

I can click on increment, click on decrement,

yep, everything looks totally normal.

So we're off to a good start.

Let's now start to add in this additional form.

So for the form,

we're gonna have a form element with a label,

a text input, a button.

We're also gonna have the two event handlers,

and we'll need to add in

an additional piece of state as well.

As we do this, I'm gonna add in a little bit of styling,

just to make sure that this component

is not horrible looking.

So I'm going to also add in an import at the very top

for our panel component from up one directory

components/panel.

And I'm just going to use this panel component

to add a little bit of spacing here and there,

again, just to make sure everything looks at least

somewhat reasonable.

Okay, back down towards the bottom,

I'm going to find the div right there,

and replace it with panel.

I'm gonna find the H1 right there.

And I'm going to give it a class name of text-lg.

I'm gonna give the panel a class name of m-3.

I'm gonna find those two buttons,

and I'm gonna wrap them with a div.

And to that div, I will add in a class name

of flex and flex-row.

I'll then add in all the JSX

that is required for that form at the bottom.

So I'm gonna add in a form element,

with the label that says add a lot.

I will add in an input element that has a type of number.

Type of number is gonna make sure

that users can only type numbers into this text input,

which is definitely some behavior that we want to have.

I will also give it a class name of p-1 m-3

bg-gray-50 border and border-gray-300.

So again, just a couple of class names

to make sure this thing looks at least somewhat reasonable.

Without any of these class names,

this component would actually be kind of hard to use

because it's just a big jumble of text and buttons.

And then finally, after the text input,

I will add in a button that says add it.

Let's save this just to make sure everything

is looking somewhat reasonable.

And yeah, I'd say that's kind of good enough.

Okay, so we need to add in some functionality to our form.

Let's first take a very quick break.
291

Instructor: Let's add in some functionality

around our form at the very bottom.

So we're gonna first begin with defining

this piece of state called "valueToAdd."

At the top of my component,

I will add in valueToAdd

and I will default its initial value to be zero.

I'll then go down to the text input.

Here it is right here.

I'm gonna give it the value prop of valueToAdd

we'll also add in our on change handler

which we will call handlechange.

I'll then scroll up a little bit

and we'll define the handle change event handler.

So right here,

handle change whenever this event handler is called,

remember it gets called within the event object.

Now we can take a look at event.target.value

that will tell us what the current value is

or whatever a user just typed into that input.

Now this is one of the first times

that we have made use of a input that has type number.

Type number is gonna make sure

that a user can only type numbers into this input.

But there are two very small gotchas,

two small issues around this.

Let me just demonstrate what the two issues are

because we're gonna have to add

in some extra code to deal with this text input.

So here is issue number one.

I'm going to create a new variable right here

called simply value and then do event.target.value.

We could shorten this up with a little bit of destructuring

but I'm not gonna do that just yet

for a very important reason.

You'll see in just a moment.

Then after that I'm gonna do a console log of value.

I'll then save this and back over here.

I'm then going to click into the text input

and then start to type in some numbers.

And you'll notice we get a console log

of like 01, 02, 04 and so on.

So that kind of looks like a number

but also kind of something looks a little bit off.

So let me add in another little bit

to the console log right here,

right in front of value.

I'm gonna put in type of,

and then a space.

This will print out what kind of value value is.

So it's gonna tell us if this is a number,

a string, an object and so on.

I'll save this again and now

if I type into the text input again,

you'll see here's the first issue we're going to run into.

Even though we are typing in numbers

and this is a definitely a number input.

We are being given event.target.value

as a string and we don't want a string,

we want a number.

So the first little issue that we need to solve,

we need to take event.target.value

and turn it into a number.

We could do that by wrapping this with parseInt like so,

parseInt is gonna take whatever string a user has typed

in and give us back an integer.

So a number that is not going to have a decimal point.

If we wanted the decimal point,

we could use parsefloat instead.

But we're just doing a simple counter component here.

So I'm just going to worry about integers in this case.

So now if we save this and test it out again,

now our console logs say yeah,

we definitely got a number.

I'm going to remove the type of,

so it's just consolelog.value.

I wanna show you the other very small issue

that we need to deal with very quickly.

So the other small issue is

that now I can type inside of here and see,

yeah I'm definitely getting console logs of numbers

but if I put my cursor right

to the right hand side of the zero and then press delete,

you'll notice we get NAN which stands for not a number.

That is what happens when you try to call parseInt

and you pass in an empty string.

So that's pretty much what's happening right now.

When we hit the delete key,

we are attempting to set the value of the input

to be an empty string.

We then call parseInt on an empty string

and we end up getting back not a number.

If we tried to add not a number to our count piece of state

then count is also gonna turn into not a number.

So again, just a very small bug we need to fix.

So to solve this,

here's what we're going to do.

I'm going to add in at the end of parseInt right here,

just outside of that parentheses,

I'll put in or zero.

That means that if we get back

not a number that is a falsely value.

And so instead of not a number we'll will assign zero

to the value variable.

Then instead of trying to console log value

let's go ahead and do our actual state update.

So let's say set value to add with value.

I'll save this now let's do another test.

Now if I type inside of here,

yep looks good and I can delete all the way down

to the zero right there like so.

Now the last thing is that always having

to have a zero inside there is a little bit not great

because if I ever want to put in something like 10,

I have to make sure I click to the left hand side

of the zero and say add in the one or whatever else.

So here's the last little change we're gonna add

in down at the input element right here.

I'm gonna add in for the value,

value to add or empty string.

So that means if we have a value to add piece

of state of zero,

then don't print out the zero,

just put in empty string instead.

So one last save.

Now we've got the empty text input

and I can type inside of here

delete all of it and it definitely all works as expected.

Alright, a little bit more challenging than you might think

for a simple number input,

but we've got it down.

So last thing we'll take care of very quickly,

we're gonna add in a on submit event handler to the form.

So in the form element I'll put in onSubmit.

Whenever that occurs,

we will call handle submit.

Then underneath handle change,

we'll define handle submit.

Remember that whenever we submit a form

the browser by default is gonna try

to submit the form for us to a backend server

and we pretty much never want that default behavior.

So we call event.prevent default.

Then all we really have to do is take our value to add piece

of state and we want to update our count piece

of state with it and then reset value to add back to zero.

So in total we'll say set count to count + valueToAdd

and reset value to add back to zero.

All right, here's our last little test.

I'm gonna add in 60,

click add it and it works.

I should also see increment

and decrement still working correctly as well.

Okay, so that's it.

That's our application implemented with the use state hook.

So this everything we put together,

so far absolutely works just fine,

but we're gonna start to refactor this

over to using Use Reducer instead.

Again, just to understand how use Reducer works.
292
Instructor: The counter page component

is working just fine,

but we're going to refactor it with the useReducer hook

so we can better understand how this hook works.

Let me first give you a couple

of notes around useReducer itself.

First, useReducer is an alternative to useState.

They are both hooks that are meant to produce state.

They're both used to change state.

And whenever that state changes,

the component is going to automatically re-render.

So we can think of useReducer as an alternative.

Usually inside of a single component we're going to use

either useState or useReducer.

It's not super common

that we're going to use both inside of one single component.

The big difference between these two hooks is

how we the developers implement the state updating logic,

and that's what our big focus is going to be on in this app,

how do we use useReducer to update our state?

That's the big focus.

useReducer is most useful whenever we have multiple pieces

of state that are very closely related to each other.

It's also really useful whenever we have some state

where the future value

of that state depends upon the current state.

So lemme tell you what these two things

right here are really all about.

First back inside of our component,

I'm gonna scroll down a little bit

to handleSubmit right here.

So we've got a call to setCount

and also setValueToAdd,

I accidentally undid that just a moment ago.

So we had a call to setCount right here,

and we are updating setCount

to be whatever count is plus valueToAdd.

So right away that is a big sign that we have two pieces

of state that are very closely related,

'cause we're using them together inside of our component.

In addition up here in increment and decrement,

we have some code where we're going

to update count to be whatever count currently is,

plus some little modification to it.

So this is an example where our future value of state,

or what we're trying to update our state to,

depends upon our current value of state.

So in our component right now,

we have both these cases,

we have both this case and this case.

And that means

that our current component is a really good candidate

for implementing useReducer in.

Okay, so now we got some high-level notes.

We're gonna start to do our refactor.

We're gonna do this in stages.

So we're gonna write out a little bit of code,

and we'll take a look at a couple different diagrams

and understand what it is doing.

To begin, I'm going to find our two calls to useState

and comment them out.

And then I'm going to comment out all

of our setter function calls.

So I will comment out, setCount, setCount,

setValueToAdd and setCount and setValueToAdd.

Next at the very top of the file,

I'm going to remove the import for useState

and replace it with an import for useReducer.

Then inside the component itself,

I'm going to add in const [State, dispatch],

I'm gonna call useReducer.

The first argument is going to be something called reducer.

The second argument is going to be an object

with a count of initialCount and valueToAdd of zero.

Then right above my component I'm going

to define a new arrow function called reducer.

This is going to take in arguments of state and action,

and then for right now I'm gonna leave this thing empty.

We'll come back and add

in some implementation in a little bit.

If you save the file right now

and go back over to your browser,

you're definitely gonna see some errors,

because down inside of our JSX,

we are currently referring to count and valueToAdd,

but those variables are no longer defined

inside of our file.

We'll fix up those errors in just a moment.

All right, a lot of mysterious code here.

So let's break down what is going on here piece by piece.

First I wanna focus

on how useReducer is similar to useState.

So on the top

of this diagram is a code we had

just a moment ago around useState

and at the bottom is the new code

that we just put in for useReducer.

So immediately we're gonna see

that there are some common elements

between these two different hooks.

Whenever we call a useState or useReducer,

we get back an array with two elements inside of it.

So element one right there, count,

element two setCount,

element one valueToAdd,

element two setValueToAdd.

And then down here with useReducer,

element one, state,

element two dispatch.

In both cases the first variable that we get back

inside that array

or that first element is our state variable.

That's our data.

That's the thing that is going to somehow change over time.

The second element in that array is a function

that we're going to use to change our state.

So up here at the useState,

we had called it setCount and setValueToAdd.

Down here with useReducer,

we are always gonna use that same name for this function.

We're always gonna call it dispatch.

dispatch works a little bit differently

than our setter functions.

And this dispatch function is gonna be a major focus

in how we figure out how to use useReducer.

Then with useState whenever we call it,

we can put in some initial value for that piece of state.

We can do the same thing

with useReducer by providing the initial value

as a second argument to the useReducer call.

So in our case, our state is gonna start off

as an object with a count of zero, and valueToAdd,

or excuse me, not a count of zero.

That diagram is a little bit inaccurate.

It's count of initialCount and a valueToAdd of zero.

So again, that diagram right there not, super accurate.

So these are some ways in which these two hooks are similar.

Let's look at some ways

in which they are a little bit different.

So the ways

in which these things are different really comes down

to some community conventions on how we use these hooks.

Usually by community convention,

this is not a hard requirement,

it's just something you're gonna see really often.

Whenever we make use of the useState hook,

we're gonna call useState multiple times

for each individual piece of state we want to declare.

So we'll have one call to useState

to create a variable called account,

another for valueToAdd.

And we usually try to keep these pieces

of state as simple as possible.

So they will be hopefully a number, a string,

some very simple value.

Again, not a hard requirement,

just a convention when we make use of useState.

When we make use of useReducer, we do the opposite.

We try to create just one single state variable,

and we call it state.

That's what you and I did just a moment ago.

We created a piece of state,

we call it, very simply, state,

and we make that state variable an object

that can have many different properties inside of it.

So we are taking all the state that is required

to make our component work correctly,

and we're combining it all together into one single object.

So this means that when we call the useReducer right now,

here's the call to useReducer,

and we get back that state variable, that is an object.

And it's gonna have properties of count,

which is gonna start off as 10

because that's what our initial count is

right now by default.

And it's gonna have a valueToAdd property of zero.

So now inside of our component,

if we ever want to get access to the current count,

we would refer to state.count.

And if we we ever want to refer to valueToAdd,

we would refer to state.valueToAdd.

So lemme show you how that works in practice.

Back inside my editor, I'm gonna scroll down to the bottom.

Here's our JSX.

We've got a broken reference to count

and a broken reference to valueToAdd.

Those variables do not exist anymore.

Instead, if we want to refer to count,

we would put in state.count,

and if we want to refer to valueToAdd,

we would put in state valueToAdd.

And now we should be able to save this

and see the original application come back up.

We'll notice that it looks

like things are kind of working correctly,

because we've got a count of 10 right here.

That means we are initializing our count piece

of state correctly with useReducer.

None of the buttons are gonna work right now, that's okay.

It's just because none

of our event handlers are really doing anything.

So at this point,

all we have really established is

that when we make use of useReducer,

we store all of our state inside

of a single object as opposed to separate variables.

Is this useful at all?

Well, I would say yeah, it actually kind of is.

It turns out that

when you start making more complex components,

you might have many different pieces of state.

And as a developer,

to develop your component

and to debug it,

you might need to know what the current value is

for each individual piece of state.

If you're doing that with the useState hook,

you would do some debugging by writing out something

like console.log(count, valueToAdd),

something else, something else and so on.

And that gets a little bit tedious.

So when we make use of a useReducer,

if we wanna figure out what our current state is,

we can do simply console.log(state).

And then if we save that

and go back over to the browser,

now we can very easily see the entire state

for our entire component.

And so it's a lot easier for us as developers

to understand why our component is doing what it does,

because we can look at the one single console.log

and understand what's going on.

So our already, I would say,

"Okay, perhaps there's some merit here.

"Perhaps there is some usefulness

"to this approach with useReducer."

And there's still a couple things we need to understand,

in particular the reducer function up here.

So still a little bit more to go through.
293
Instructor: The real challenge

around the use reducer hook

is understanding how we update our state.

So in the world of use state

which we were using previously,

state updates were pretty simple and straightforward.

We would call a setter function.

We would put in our new value for that piece of state

that would cause our component to automatically re-render.

And when it re-rendered

and we got our new piece of state right there,

its value would be whatever

we had just passed into that setter function.

So in this case it would've been five

or whatever we passed into the setter.

So this was pretty simple and straightforward to understand.

Both use reducer,

the situation is a little bit more complicated.

So here's what's going on.

So this is state updates with use reducer.

There's a couple of steps for us to understand.

So everything starts off

with us calling the dispatch function.

The dispatch function is inside of that array

that we get back from calling use reducer.

It's the second element in that array.

That dispatch function is how we trigger a state update.

So anytime we need to update our state,

anytime we need to get our component to re-render

when we are using use reducer,

we are going to call dispatch.

When you call dispatch

something really

kinda strange is gonna happen.

This is kind of the crazy part.

But I know you're gonna understand what's going on here.

So when you call dispatch,

react is gonna go and find that reducer function

that we defined at the top of the file.

So here's the reducer function right here.

We had defined that function

and then passed it in as the first argument to use reducer.

So react knows this function exists.

Whenever you call dispatch

react is gonna find that function and run it.

When that function is executed by react,

the first argument which we refer to as state

is gonna be whatever the current state

of your component is

that is being maintained by that reducer.

So for you and I,

it's gonna be an object.

Looks like this.

It will have a count and a value to add.

That is always gonna show up as the first argument.

The second argument by convention,

we usually call it action.

Not a hard requirement.

But we usually call it action by convention

and I'll show you why in a little bit.

The value of that second argument

is gonna be whatever we passed into dispatch.

When you call dispatch,

you can pass in no arguments,

or you can pass in exactly one.

If you pass in more than one argument,

all the extras get thrown away and completely ignored.

So if you ever want to pass something into dispatch

you're gonna pass it in always as the first argument.

So that first argument right there

is gonna show up in the reducer function

as that second argument that usually we call action.

So then here is the interesting part.

The reducer function is going to run

and the key is whatever we return from that function

is gonna be our brand new updated state.

So let's imagine for example

that inside of our reducer function,

we implement some code that

returns an object that looks like that.

An object with a count of 200

and a value to add of 300.

So that object for some reason

we decide to return it from our reducer function.

This is now our new state for our component.

So our component is going to re-render.

We're going to call use reducer again.

We get that state variable right there

and the state variable is gonna be this new object

that we had just returned.

So the object with a count of 200 and a value to add of 300.

So in short, just to repeat this cycle one more time

we call dispatch anytime we want to update our state.

If we put in any arguments to dispatch

they're gonna show up as the second argument to reducer.

The first argument is always gonna be our existing state,

whatever we return is gonna be

the brand new state for our component.

Now when I go through the cycle

it might sound well kind of simple, kind of straightforward,

but there's some kind of weird parts like

what's the point of all this?

Why are we putting this code

or all this stuff into this reducer function?

Why is it even called a reducer and so on.

Well, before we get into those kind of more crazy questions,

I wanna go over a couple of rules

around the reducer function

that's really important for you to understand right now.

And again, these are all rules

that are gonna be extremely relevant

when we get into the world of redux.

All right, so a couple of rules for us to understand.

First, once again,

whatever we return from this function

is gonna be our brand new state.

And that means that if we return nothing whatsoever,

react is gonna say, oh you return nothing,

you returned undefined.

Well then your new state is going to be undefined.

So we need to always make sure in a reducer function

that we return some reasonable value.

Some value that can be intelligently used by our components.

The other thing to understand

is that our reducer function

is never ever going to use anything like async await.

It's never going to make any requests.

It's not gonna have any promises.

It's not gonna have any reference

as much as possible to outside variables.

In other words, we want our reducer function

to only operate on these incoming arguments

of state and action, that's it.

No other extra logic inside of here.

Some of these requirements are just rules.

They're kind of community conventions,

others are hard requirements.

So examples of,

or I should say async await,

we just plain cannot make requests inside of a reducer.

If you try to do so,

react is gonna say, hey wait a minute

you just returned a promise.

I really wasn't expecting that.

Using outside variables.

So maybe referring to a variable

that is defined somewhere else inside your file

that is changing over time.

That is not a hard requirement

but it's really recommended that you not do that.

So as much as possible,

we define our reducer function

to only operate on these two arguments right here,

return of value and it should do nothing else whatsoever.

The last thing for you to understand

is that very much like many other places

we have seen in React,

we are receiving that state object

and we are not going to modify

that state object directly in any way.

So an example of what we should not do

is try to look at that incoming state object right there

and directly update the count property on it.

So this right here is an example

of what we do not want to see inside of reducer.

Instead, if we ever want to update the state in any way,

so update a property on it,

we're gonna use some of those rules

that we learned about much earlier on inside the course.

For example, if we need to update the account property,

we are going to create a brand new object,

copy paste over all the values

from the existing state object

and then overwrite the account property

in particular with some new value for it.

Same thing if we need to update value to add.

And if we ever need to completely reset our state,

well then we can just return a brand new object.

So again, we're never going to

directly modify the state object.

We're always gonna use those rules

for doing the kind of clever updates

that we learned about a long time ago.

Okay, so let's see a little bit

of this reducer thing in action.

For right now we're gonna try out something really simple.

I want to make sure that whenever

I click on the increment button,

we just increment our count by one.

And we're only going to worry about increment for right now.

So to implement this,

well, we need to change some state.

And to change our state, we have to call dispatch.

So I'm gonna find our increment event handler right here.

I'm going to delete the old setter function.

Inside of here, I'm going to call dispatch.

I don't really need to pass in any arguments to this

because I know that all I want to do

is increment our count by one.

So I could say,

oh yeah, I want to increment it by one

and then receive that argument.

But in this case, again,

I don't think I really need to

communicate any arguments just yet.

So when I call dispatch,

react is gonna go and find

the reducer function that we passed in

as the first argument to use reducer.

So that is this function right here.

It's gonna call this function,

it's gonna put in our current state as the first argument.

And then action right here, the second argument,

is gonna be anything that I provided

to the dispatch function.

In this case, I provided no argument.

So action is gonna be undefined,

so I don't need to use action in any way just yet.

Then inside of here,

all I want to do is update the count property.

So I cannot do something like state dot count,

equals state dot count plus one

because that would be modifying the state object.

Instead, I'm going to return a brand new object

where I copy paste over all the keys and values

from the current state object

and then I update count to be

state dot count plus one.

And that's it.

So let's save this.

I'm gonna flip back over.

And now if I click on increment,

I will in fact see, yep it is definitely increasing.

Okay, so at this point, hey not too bad right?

And we've got a couple of rules

around our reducer functions.

So now we're going to start to expand

in complexity a little bit.

We're going to learn that as we try to

update our state in other ways,

doing all these different updates

inside of one reducer function

can become a little bit tricky
294
Instructor: There's one last big topic

for us to understand around useReducer,

and it's really focused on the reducer function itself.

Let me explain a little issue with our reducer function,

something we have to solve.

So, of course, inside of our component,

there are many different things a user can do

to update our state.

They can click on the increment button, decrement,

they can type in the input,

they can click on the add a lot button.

And with every one of those interactions,

we need to update our state in some way.

Because we are making use of useReducer,

the only way that we can update our state

is by calling dispatch.

So if a user clicks on the button, we're calling dispatch.

If a user types on the input, we are calling dispatch.

And when we call dispatch,

our reducer function is going to be executed.

And now here is the problem.

When the reducer function runs,

the only thing that the reducer function knows,

the only input to it, the only information it has access to,

are the arguments of state and action.

That's it, nothing else.

And so inside of the reducer function,

we're going to run into a little bit

of a problem really quickly.

The problem is when the reducer function runs,

well, we know it's running

'cause we're executing some code in there,

but we don't really know what state

we are supposed to be updating.

We're calling dispatch in either case,

and we're running the reducer function,

so how do we know if we call the dispatch function

as a result of a user clicking a button

or as a result of a user typing in the input.

We need some way of telling the reducer

why it is being executed

and what piece of state it needs to update.

So to implement this, to solve this,

let me show you a very popular solution in the community.

Here we go.

So whenever we call dispatch,

we need to pass along some information into the reducer

to tell the reducer how the state should be updated.

We need to tell the reducer

if it should update the count property

or if it should update valueToAdd

or exactly what property it should update.

Now there are many, many different ways

that we could solve this problem,

but lemme show you one very popular way

in the community in particular.

This is a solution that the React community

has come up with.

It's been very, very popular for many, many years.

This solution for telling the reducer what it needs to do

is not a hard requirement.

We can make use of useReducer in any way we wish,

but this is a pattern that you're gonna see extremely often,

especially as you start to go into the world of Redux.

So here is the solution.

The solution is that whenever we call dispatch,

for example, from inside of an event handler like increment,

or from inside of an event handler like handleChange,

we are always a hundred percent of the time going

to call the dispatch function

with an object that we refer to as an action object.

So in this case, that object right there,

that is an action object.

The object down here, once again, an action object.

An action object is always going to have

a type property that is a string.

So in this case,

I've got a type property of increment-count.

Down here I have a type property of change-value.

That string in particular

is going to be what tells the reducer what kind of state

update it needs to make.

So the reducer is going to use that type property,

that string, to understand, oh, I am being called

because I need to increment the count piece of state,

or I need to change the value to add piece of states.

And if we ever need to communicate some data to the reducer,

such as whatever a user just typed into the text input,

then we are gonna communicate that data

on the payload property of this action object.

Now lemme just repeat once again, right away,

because once you see,

start seeing these terms of type and payload,

I wanna be super clear

that there's absolutely nothing special

around dispatching an object that has a type property

and a payload property.

There's nothing special at the type property,

there's nothing special about payload.

It's just a very strong community convention

that you're gonna see extremely frequently.

Okay, so that's what we're gonna do

whenever we need to update our states.

We're going to dispatch an object that has a type

that is gonna be a string,

and if we need to communicate any data along,

we're gonna place it on the payload property.

So now let me show you what we're gonna do

on the other side, what we're gonna do in the reducer.

So here's the reducer.

So on the left hand side I've got an example

of us dispatching an action object

with a type of increment-count.

And then over here I've got an action object

with a type of change-value.

So these action objects, because we are dispatching them,

we are passing them as the first argument into dispatch,

they're gonna show up as the second argument

into our reducer function,

and we usually refer to that argument as action.

Again, we don't have to call it action,

but now that you understand these are action objects,

that's why we call it action

because we're always going to be receiving an action object.

So then inside of our reducer, whenever it runs,

we're gonna take a look at that action arguments,

and we're gonna look at its type property in particular.

We're gonna set up a series of if statements,

and there are a couple of different ways to write these out.

We're going to eventually have little bit cleaner solution

than a bunch of if statements.

But for right now, easiest to understand with if statements.

So we'll take a look at that action.type property,

and if that type property is equal to exactly the string,

increment-count, then the reducer can say,

oh, fantastic, I know why I'm being called.

I know why something was just dispatched.

I know that we need to update the count property by one,

so it can make that state update and return

that new state object.

And our problem is solved.

We've made the appropriate update to our state.

Likewise, if the action's type property is exactly equal

to the string change-value,

then our reducer knows that we need to update the value

to add property, and we need to set it

to whatever was passed along as action.payload.

So that's it, that's the solution.

That's how we're gonna tell the reducer exactly what kind

of update to our state it needs to make.

We're going to always dispatch

one of these action object things.

And again, these are not required.

There's nothing special about type,

nothing special about payload,

it's just a very strong community convention.

One last thing I wanna mention,

there's also nothing special about these strings.

So like the actual string of change-value,

we can put any string inside there we want.

The only reasons these strings exist at all

is so that the reducer can understand what our goal is.

It can understand, oh, right now we want to increment

the count piece of state,

so the string itself doesn't actually make a difference.

All right, so now that we understand the idea here,

let's try implementing this inside of our component.

So back inside my editor,

I'm gonna go down to increment right here.

When I call dispatch,

I'm going to dispatch an action object.

So that means it's gonna be an object that must

have a type property.

In this case, I'm going to give it a type of,

how bout simply increment?

Because again, the string itself doesn't actually matter.

We can put in any string we want right here.

So I'm just gonna put in,

I think of something that makes sense,

I'm just gonna call it increment.

Then up inside of our reducer,

when this thing gets called,

I'm gonna delete the current return statement we have.

When this is called,

we're going to receive our current state object

and the action object.

So we're gonna take a look

at the action object's type property,

and if that is equal to increment, well, then fantastic.

We know what state update we need to make.

We know that we need to return a new object

with all the properties of our current state object,

but it's gonna have an updated value for count.

So state.count plus one.

Remember that as soon as we start setting up these

if statements, no matter what we always have to return

a value from a reducer.

If we return nothing,

that's interpreted as us returning undefined,

and so our state will be updated to undefined.

So I'm gonna make sure that no matter what,

even if I don't fall into this if statement,

I always at least fall back to returning my current state.

Okay, I'm gonna save this,

and just to make sure it works, I can click on increment.

Yep, still works.

Now I'm going to also make sure

the text input works as well.

So I'll go down to my handleChange event handler.

So I'm going to delete this setter.

I know that whenever user types inside the input,

I need to change my state.

So I'm going to call dispatch.

And to tell the reducer what kind of update we need to make,

we're going to dispatch an action object.

All action objects must have a type that is a string.

So I'm gonna add in a string here.

And again the actual value

of the string doesn't make a difference.

I'm just gonna put in something that makes sense to me.

So I'm gonna put in a type of how bout change-value-to-add,

and then I need to communicate along some information.

I need to tell the reducer exactly what we want

to set value to add to.

So because I need to provide some information

along with this one,

I'm gonna add on the optional payload property.

And in this case, my payload is gonna be value.

That's what I want to set value to add to.

I'll then go back up to the reducer,

and now I can add on another if statement.

I'm gonna put in action.type,

and in this case, I'm gonna look for whatever

that string was we just added in down below.

So let's just double check, make sure we get the right one.

So we need to watch for an action

with the type of change-value-to-add.

So I'll put in change-value-to-add.

So if we see an action with that type,

once again we know exactly what we need to do.

We know we need to return a new object

with all the current values of states,

but we want to update valueToAdd to be action.payload.

And that's it.

So let's save this.

So remember right now we've only implemented increment,

so that definitely still works

and the ability to type inside the text input.

So I should be able to type in here

and see a number up here.

And also as I type, I should be able to see my console log

'cause I'm still console logging my current state down here.

I should be able to see the state object updated as well.

So I can very plainly see that with every single key press,

we are definitely updating our state

because I see an additional console log,

and our state is being updated appropriately
295
Speaker 1: There are two quick improvements

that we're going to make to our reducer implementation.

The first is around the fact that we are adding

in raw strings to serve as the action types.

So just to be super clear, inside of our event handler,

we are dispatching an action object

that has a type property that's gonna be a string.

And that string, whatever we put right there,

must be the absolute identical string

to whatever we put inside of our if statement down here.

If they are not identical,

then that means our reducer is simply going to

ignore the action

and it's gonna fall into the default case

of returning whatever the current state is.

So we're not gonna make any update to our state.

So in other words,

when we write out the string inside the event handler,

or when we write out the string inside the reducer,

if we accidentally make a typo in one,

if they are not identical,

if one is increment the counter please

and the other is simply increment,

that means the reducer is going to ignore this dispatch

and not update our state.

So it turns out this is a really,

really common source of bugs.

It is extremely common for us as engineers

to accidentally write out a string

inside of the dispatch that has maybe one spelling

and then a totally different string

inside the actual reducer.

And because there might be a difference between the two

our state won't update

and we'll be sitting there wondering, "Hey,

why isn't my state updating?"

Well, it's because we added in a typo.

So there's a very common practice that we use

to solve this possible little bug.

And the solution is to define a couple of constant variables

at the top of our file or in another file entirely.

These variables are going to store a simple string

so we're going to use these variables

in place of our type instead of the raw strings.

Now, for some reason, in my mind when I look at this

I feel like this is a confusing concept.

So I gotta tell you, don't over complicate things here.

The only goal of this change

is to prevent us from making typos.

That is it.

That's the only reason we do this.

You might say immediately, "Well, Steven,

what if I make a typo in the variable name?"

You can.

I might accidentally put in something like

increments without an E or something like that.

But if you make a typo in a variable name,

your program is going to throw an error

about an undefined variable,

and that's a really obvious error

you can track down really quickly and figure out

what is going on.

It's a lot harder to figure out why your state isn't

updating because you are missing a character

inside of a raw string.

So we're going to define a set of action types

that look like this,

and then we're going to use these variable names

whenever we need to specify a type

at the dispatch statement or inside of a reducer

in place of any raw strings.

You'll notice that these action type variables,

in this case increment_count,

has kind of a special capitalization to it.

Once again, this is another community convention.

Using this kind of capitalization

is just a sign to other engineers

that this is a variable that is serving as an action type.

There's absolutely no requirement

around making these things capitalized

or anything like that.

And once again,

the actual string that we use, completely inconsequential.

The string is meaningless.

The only requirement is that the string is unique

against all the other action types

we have inside of reducer.

And hopefully it might maybe make a little bit of sense

because you might eventually console log that string

and it'll just be easier to kind of figure out

what is going on with an action

if this string has a little bit of meaning to it.

Okay, so let's make a little update to our component

in place of these raw strings

inside of our event handlers and the reducer.

We're going to define a couple

of variables at the top of the file,

and we're going to use these variables as our action types.

And again, this entire thing

is just about preventing a very common class of bugs.

There's going to be absolutely no immediate impact

to our code.

Okay, so back over here at the top of my component,

I'm going to define increment count

and I'll make that a string of increment.

I will also make set value to add.

So again, the string doesn't matter.

This can be set value to add with dashes.

It can have, oops, let me do that again.

It can be with underscores, it can be set, it can be change,

it can be anything we want.

Ideally, it'll make a little bit of sense to us

but there's really no difference.

The variable name over here, likewise, no difference.

We can have this variable name be anything we want

but ideally it'd be nice

if it kind of made a little bit of sense to us.

So now we're going to go around

and rather than writing out the raw string of increment,

we're going to reference this variable instead.

So I'm gonna put in increment count right there.

I'm going to go down to the event handler

where we call dispatch with a type of increment.

And I'll put in increment count right there.

I'll then go back up to the top again,

I'm going to copy set value to add

and I'm going to use that

in place of change value to add right here.

Again, no difference between set and change.

Absolutely no difference whatsoever.

So I'm gonna paste in that new action type.

And then down at our other event handler right here,

whenever a user changes the text input

I'm going to specify that hard-coded constant as well.

Okay, let's save this now.

We're just gonna make sure everything still works.

I'm gonna refresh the page.

I can still increment.

I can still type in here.

Everything looks good.

And now, just to kind of prove to you that although, yeah,

we can make typos around this thing right here,

absolutely we can still make a typo on the variable name.

If I put in value to blah, something like that,

immediately my editor is going to tell me

that I'm referencing a variable that is not defined.

If you do not see that error in your editor,

that's totally fine.

You can always save the file, go over to the browser,

and your browser will tell you the same thing.

And so that is a very clear sign that we have a mistake

around some of the types around our reducer

and that there's probably something we need to fix

and we would not get the same kind of error

if we were using plain strings.

Okay.

So again, all this stuff just to prevent a very,

very common class of bugs.

It has no immediate impact on our components.
296
Instructor: As I mentioned,

there is one other improvement we're going to make

to our reducer before we finish up this example.

We can absolutely continue to write out our reducer

in the same style we've done so far where we have a series

of different if statements,

but there's another very, very common way

that you're gonna see in a lot of different reducers.

It's just using a slightly different way

of making a decision in JavaScript.

So at the very top of my reducer,

actually first, let me comment out everything

I have inside my reducer right now.

And then at the very top of the reducer,

I'm going to replace all these if statements

with a switch statement instead.

If you are not familiar with switch statements,

we add in a switch like so

in between these parentheses.

We're going to reference some kind of value.

In this case, I'm gonna switch over action.type.

We're then going to add in a series

of different case statements.

So I'm gonna add in a case of INCREMENT_COUNT

and then a colon, a case of SET_VALUE_TO_ADD

and then a colon, and default and a colon.

So once again, if you're not familiar

with a JavaScript switch statement,

this is roughly equivalent to a series of if statements.

All it says is if action.type,

if that variable right there is equal

to the string referenced by INCREMENT_COUNT,

then run whatever code is right here.

If action.type is equal to whatever string is referenced

by SET_VALUE_TO_ADD, then run whatever code is right here.

And if there is no match,

then go to the default case instead.

So once again, no difference really

than a series of if statements.

This just allows us to write out all of our different cases

for the reducer a little bit more concisely,

a little bit easier to read.

So now in each of these different cases,

we're gonna do exactly what we were doing before.

We're gonna make an update to our state

and return the result.

So in the case of INCREMENT_COUNT, I'm just going

to copy what we were doing before.

So I'm going to uncomment that, copy, recomment

and then paste that in for INCREMENT_COUNT.

For SET_VALUE_TO_ADD, I'll go down

to that if statement we had a moment ago,

uncomment, copy recomment.

I'll paste it in for the case.

And then for default right here, there's a little bit

of contention in the community.

Let me just give you a very quick little bit

of backstory here.

So remember, the only way that we run our reducer

is by dispatching an action.

We call dispatch,

we're gonna dispatch an action and ideally,

whenever we dispatch an action,

it's gonna have a type that perfectly lines up

with one of these different cases.

So if we ever have an action type that does not match one

of these cases, that means that we dispatch an action

that our reducer wasn't really designed to handle.

So if we end up down here in the default case,

it means we got an action

with a type that we were just plain not expecting.

And so that means that our program

might be doing something a little bit unexpected.

So in the JavaScript community,

there's two lines of thought here.

Some people say that if you enter into the default case,

that means something is wrong

with your program and you dispatch an action

of the type that you did not expect.

And so in that case, you should throw an error.

Maybe it's something like unexpected action type

and then add on what that type was, something like that.

Other people in the community say, "Well, you know what?

If we dispatch an unexpected action type, who caress?

So what?

Maybe we accidentally called dispatch

and we weren't quite expecting to receive the action we got

but it's no big deal.

I don't really wanna see a big error thrown because of it."

And so other people say

that if you fall into the default case,

just go ahead and return whatever your current state is

and just don't update the state.

If we just return state directly,

that pretty much means we are ignoring

whatever action object was just dispatched.

So it's kind of up to you

and it's kinda up to the application you are working on

to decide how you want to handle that case.

Do you want to throw an error and tell yourself,

hey, I'm seeing an action type that I wasn't expecting

or do you want to just kind of ignore it and continue on?

Again, totally up to you.

For me, I'm just gonna return my state.

I don't really want to throw a big hubbub over it.

I'm just gonna return

and say I'm gonna ignore that action type.

I'm then going to clean up all the comments.

So I'll delete all those.

And there we go.

We are now left with a switch statement inside of reducer.

And this little bit of code right here, this is some bit

of code you're gonna see extremely frequently

when you start to get into the world of Redux

if you are not using a library called Redux Toolkit,

which is becoming a little bit more popular these days.

But if you are using classic Redux,

you're gonna end up writing code

that looks like this right here

extremely, extremely frequently.

And again, that's why we went through this example

with useReducer before going into the world of Redux

'cause everything in Redux kind of boils down

to exactly what we've now gone through.

So that's pretty much it.

Last thing we have to do is add

in a couple of more dispatches.

We need to handle the case

in which a user is trying to decrement and the case

in which a user is trying to submit the form

and they want to see count added up to count

plus valueToAdd and reset valueToAdd back to zero.

So we just need to handle those two last cases

and we'll be all done with this example
297
peaker 1: We need to increment the decrement button

and the add it button as well.

So in other words, we need to add in

two additional ways of updating state with our reducer.

Adding in these additional ways is always gonna boil down

to the exact same three steps,

and you can really do these steps in any order.

I just listed them out in order of 1, 2, 3

but we could start with three first and then go to two,

and then to one really doesn't make a difference.

So step number one, we're going to first add in

a new constant action type string

at the top of this vial.

So let's do that right now.

Up here at the top I'm going to add in

a new constant and this one is going to handle the case

in which a user clicks on the decrement button.

So I want to have some kind of action type

that kind of is clear to other engineers

that this is all about decrementing

the count piece of state.

So I'm gonna match the existing name we have right here,

use kind of a similar format.

I'll add in decrement_count,

and assign it a string of decrements.

Next up, I'm gonna add a call to dispatch

at whatever location I need to update my state from.

So for us, we want to update our states whenever user clicks

on the decrement button.

So I'm gonna go down to our decrement button,

click event handler.

Here it is right here.

Whenever this thing is called, we want to call dispatch.

So I'm gonna call dispatch.

And furthermore, whenever I call dispatch,

I'm always going to include an action object

100% of the time.

All action objects must have a type property

and in this case I want to tell my reducer

that it needs to decrement count.

So I'm going to dispatch an action object

with a type of decrement count.

Okay, not too bad.

That's step two.

Now onto step number three, we're gonna add in

a new case statement inside of our reducer.

So back up inside the reducer,

anywhere inside the switch statement

I can add in a new case.

In this case, I'm gonna watch

for an action type of decrement count.

So I'll say case decrement count.

Don't forget the colon right there.

And then I'm going to return a new object,

copy, paste all the values over

from our existing state object

and then apply the update we want to make.

So in this case, I want to have count,

the state.count minus one

and that's it.

So now we should be able to go back over, refresh,

click on the decrement button and see that count go down.

Perfect.

So we're going to repeat the exact same process

but this time around we're gonna implement the user clicking

on the add it all button at the very bottom,

the form submission essentially.

So once again, in this case,

whenever a user clicks on add it,

our state update is gonna be a little bit

just ever so slightly more complex.

Here is the old handle submit event handler.

So previously we were updating count to be

count plus value to add,

and we were resetting value to add back to zero.

So we need to now apply those two separate state updates

inside of our reducer.

So step one, I'm gonna follow the same order in this case.

I'm gonna add in a new action type at the top

and I'll say, I dunno, what should the type here be?

Well, it's all about adding it all.

So I'll just say add value to count.

Little bit verbose but very clear to other engineers.

So I'll say for the string, add value to count that works.

I'll then go down to the form submission event handler,

all the way down.

Here's handle submit.

I'm going to delete the setters

and replace it with a single call to dispatch.

As usual, whenever we call dispatch,

we're gonna dispatch an action

and all actions must have a type property.

In this case, we want to have a type of add value to count.

Step number three, back up to the reducer,

add in another case statement.

We can add in the case anywhere.

I'm gonna add it down here.

And then in this case we're going to return a new object

with all the values and keys from the existing state object.

We're gonna update count to be whatever state.count is

plus state.value to add.

And we're going to reset value to add back to zero.

Now, you might have some questions

around the fact that we did not include

a payload property this time.

You also might be kind of concerned about the fact

that we are copy pasting all the different values

from the state object, but then kind of replacing

all the keys and values that exist on there.

I'm gonna address that, those issues in just a moment.

So let's just kinda take this code at face value

for right now and I'll mention a couple of interesting cases

around this little snippet of code.

If this all looks truly fine to you

and nothing looks kind of curious, don't sweat as well.

I'll make sure it's super clear

why I made some of the decisions here

and what the impact of them are.

At any rate, let's now save the file.

Quick test.

So back over here, I should now be able to type in 60,

click on, add it, see count go up to 70,

and add a lot is set back to being empty.

And once again, the nice thing is at every point in time,

I can look at my console and understand exactly

what the entire state of my entire component is.

So that's it.

That's use reducer.

We've now gone through a full example and once again,

a lot of the stuff we are seeing here

is gonna be almost identical in many aspects

as we go into the world of Redux.

We are going to initially learn

about a framework called Redux Toolkit

which is going to kinda save us

from having to do some more manual work

such as manually defining all these action types.

But if you are using Classic Redux,

so kinda like the original version of Redux,

all this stuff, 100%, we're going to do the exact same thing

in the world of Redux as well
298
Instructor: Our application is all done

but I want to very quickly discuss two kind

of interesting aspects of how we designed our Reducer

and how we are currently dispatching actions to it.

So here's the first one.

We've got a case inside

of the Reducer specifically ADD_VALUE_TO_COUNT.

And inside there, as you can very easily see,

we are creating a new object, copy pasting everything

over from state and then redefining count and valueToAdd.

And as a reminder,

right now our state object looks kinda like that.

It is an object that has a count

that's a number and valueToAdd that is a number.

So I want to kinda highlight something very

in particular around this current return statement.

So here's what's kind of going on behind the scenes.

I want to imagine what JavaScript is doing

as it is creating that object that we are trying to return.

So first we can imagine an object is created.

Then we're gonna take a look at all the different keys

and values from the current state object and copy them over.

So that new object will get a count

of 10 and a valueToAdd of 20.

So that's the "...state" part.

And then immediately after that,

we define two new key value pairs.

We get a count of state.count plus state.valueToAdd.

So that would be 30 and we get a valueToAdd of zero.

The way that JavaScript works is

that later key value pairs that are identical

to earlier keys,

the earlier ones are going to get overwritten.

So in this case, the earlier count

and valueToAdd get completely deleted like so

and we are left with just count 30 and valueToAdd zero.

So the question here, what I kinda wanna point

out is what was the point

of putting on the "...state" at all?

Is there any point to that?

Because we know that we only ever have keys and values

of count and valueToAdd.

And because we are going to define them

on the next two lines of code,

well what's the point of the "...state" if we're going

to overwrite all those properties no matter what?

And that's definitely a very valid criticism and

in our application we could absolutely remove the "...state"

and everything would work correctly.

But lemme show you the thought process behind this.

At some point in time we might decide to add

in some additional properties

or some additional features to our application,

and in particular this counter page component.

And as a part of those additional features, we might decide

that we need some new state properties.

So at some point in time in the future we might

have a state object that looks like this,

we've got count, valueToAdd

and then anotherProperty that right now is going

to be say, true.

Let's imagine that our state now looks like this

but we had it written out our Reducer not putting

in the "...state" for this particular case.

And I want you to think about what

would happen now when we tried to run

or process this action type.

So here's what would happen

if we had left off the "...state".

We would create the new object.

We would add in a count of 30, a valueToAdd

of zero and then we would've returned that.

What's the problem here?

The problem is we left off anotherProperty true.

The current state object has anotherProperty of true

but we just created this object right here and returned it.

And that means we are losing out

on that anotherProperty property

that we added in at some point in time.

So the issue is that if we come back to our application

and we start to modify our state object, if we start to add

in additional properties and we don't add

in that "...state", pretty much all over the place

then as we start to add in more properties,

they're going to be lost

as we start to run these different cases inside

of our Reducer that didn't include the "...state",

that's pretty much the whole concern.

So again, right now we could leave off the "...state",

our application worked us fine.

The danger is if we ever come back

and start to modify the structure of state

and start to run those cases that don't have the "...state",

we just lose out on properties.

That's pretty much it.

So it's usually just a little bit easier to add

on the "...state", and just future proof.

That's pretty much all it is, future proofing.

Alright, so that's one consideration.

One other thing I wanna point out here.

So the other thing I wanna point

out was the ADD_VALUE_TO_COUNT case.

So inside of our code, inside of some of our event handler,

I think it was the form submission 1,

we've got ADD_VALUE_TO_COUNT.

We dispatch an action that looks like this.

We then got our case statement to handle it

like this right here.

Absolutely works just fine, no problem with it whatsoever.

But I just wanna point

out some other ways that we could have possibly

implemented this and I want to explain

to you why those other options probably would not

be a good idea in the long run.

So here are two other ways that we could have implemented

pretty much exactly this feature right here.

So option number one.

When we call or when we dispatch

inside of our event handler,

we could have included a payload

specifying what we wanted to set count to be.

So we could have modified maybe the type

to be a little more descriptive.

We could have said SET_COUNT_AND_RESET_VALUETOADD.

It's a really long type

which is kind of a sign in its own right

but it would've been descriptive of what we want to do.

And then inside the Reducer we could

have simplified the Reducer a little bit and said, okay,

whenever we see that action type,

create the new state object copy everything over.

The new count is going to be action.payload

and then just set value add to zero.

So in short, we could have included a payload to

say set count to be this value right here.

Another way of looking at this is

that we could have calculated what the new count

should be inside of our event handler inside the Reducer.

That's kind of another way of looking at this.

I'm gonna claim that this is not a very good approach.

I'll tell you why in just a moment.

First, let's take a look at one other possible solution.

So here is another possible solution.

Inside of our event handler,

we could have dispatched an action on the type

of something like SET_COUNT_AND_VALUE

and then included a payload where we just

included a whole big object that said we want to

set count to be this and we want to set value to be zero.

And then inside the Reducer we could have just written

out "...state" "...action.payload".

"...action.payload" would've pretty much just

said, set our state to be count

of that and valueToAdd of zero.

So both these approaches, they would've worked,

we could have done this, our code would've worked just fine

but I'm gonna claim that

both these are not super good ideas and here's why.

So inside of a typical application,

usually this is not a hundred percent of the time,

but usually if we are building a large application,

there might be several different locations

where we dispatch a given event.

So let's say, or I should say a given type.

So let's say that we've got a dispatch

in event handler A, somewhere inside of our application.

So that's gonna dispatch type

of SET_COUNT_AND_RESET_VALUETOADD.

We might have another event handler called event handler B.

And we want to do pretty much the same exact thing.

So we're going to dispatch the exact same type

and we might have event handler C,

we might want to do the exact same thing.

So dispatch an action with the same type.

This is kind of common inside of a larger React application,

there might be multiple different event handlers

that all need to dispatch the same action type.

The result here is that

if we try to kinda load a little bit more

of our logic into the payload,

if we try to place more logic into the event handler,

here's what's gonna happen pretty quickly,

I want you to take a really close look

at these different actions that I've included.

Do you notice any difference between them?

Notice how this one right here is count plus, count plus,

and then over here, oops,

we got a typo, count minus valueToAdd.

So this is what happens if we try to stuff a lot of logic

at the location where we do the dispatch, we can very easily

make a typo in some location

and not really realize it, leads to bugs.

So generally it makes a lot more sense.

Usually it makes more sense to put a lot more logic

into the Reducer and try

to keep our dispatches really simple.

Usually that's gonna make more sense because

that means we've got only one location

where we are executing some business logic.

It is only inside the Reducer.

So that means anytime we need to add in a dispatch,

we're just gonna have less code we need to write.

All we have to do is dispatch our action

with the appropriate type and that's it.

We don't have to worry about adding

in a bunch of business logic or anything like that.

One thing I wanna point out is that one of the big goals

behind Reducers is to end up with a very specific set,

a very precise set of ways in which we can modify our state.

And that's gonna be always a lot easier to do.

It's gonna be a lot easier to say here is precisely the ways

in which our state can be changed if we place all the logic

for that inside the Reducer instead

of trying to locate it out inside of our event handlers

or otherwise wherever we are doing our dispatch.

So that's it.

That's the general idea

and that's why I think that this solution right here

where all we did was dispatch an action with a type,

we were able to write all of our logic inside the Reducer.

And so there was very little chance of making any mistake

or introducing any bugs inside of our event handler itself

where we were doing the actual dispatch
299
Lecturer: Before we move on,

we're gonna take a look at one last topic around reducers.

And don't worry, this is actually a good topic

because it's going to kind of make

our lives a little bit easier.

So we're gonna take a look at

a very popular library called immer, I M M E R, immer.

Immer is a library that allows us to

change how we write our reducers.

It allows us to write out some code

that directly modifies our state object.

So take a look at this little line

of code right here that I've got in the orange box

and look at it very closely.

In this example,

I am updating the count property of the state object.

That means I'm directly mutating the state

that is flowing into this function.

And normally this would be a huge problem.

We normally absolutely do not do this whatsoever.

But the Immer Library is going to allow us

to break that rule.

It allows us to directly modify state.

And so that means that as we start to write

out a bunch of different reducers,

and all these different cases inside them.

We no longer have to write out this code

where we create a new object

and then try to copy paste all the values

from the current state

and then update some particular value.

I think you can agree with me

that this gets a little bit tedious pretty quickly.

So immer allows us to write out these reducers

with a little bit more direct logic that you

probably already know and understand.

It's like just plain JavaScript

as opposed to these really special cases where

we try to avoid mutating state.

So as soon as I tell you that this library exists

you might be a little bit angry with me.

You might say, Steven, you're a jerk.

Why did we not just use this library earlier?

Well the answer is extremely simple.

Not all react projects out there

in the wild that you're gonna work on

in your professional career are going

to use the immer library.

Not all projects use it.

As a matter of fact, I would really say probably a minority

of projects make use of this immer library.

So you absolutely positively still need to

know how to handle state updates without immer.

If you don't, you're going to go

into a job interview at some point in time

and you're gonna be asked to write out some code.

And if you are relying upon immer,

well you're gonna be a little bit embarrassed

if the company that you are trying to work with

doesn't use this library.

So you need to know both directions

or kind of both possibilities.

Alright, now before we make use of immer at all.

I want to be super clear.

This is the most important diagram out of these videos.

When we make use of just react by itself

and we write out a reducer,

there are some rules we need to follow

and we've been really clear about these rules.

So in a normal reducer, we do not directly change our state.

Instead, we make use of that really fancy syntax

for creating a new state object, blah, blah,

all the update stuff.

And inside of our reducer, we absolutely always

must return the new value that we want to use for our state.

So those are rules that we have learned about

as we've been learning about reducers.

We understand these rules.

When we start to make use of immer however,

these rules are going to change a little bit.

So the first rule, which I've kind of already

told you about, we can now directly modify state.

But it's these other two rules that

are super important for you to understand.

When you are making use of immer, you no longer

have to return a value from the reducer function.

It is not required.

And as a matter of fact, if you do return a value

it's not going to be used at all.

Instead, immer is going to watch

for whatever changes you make to that state object.

And it's going to automatically take care

of creating a new state object for you

and then passing that back into the world of react.

So in short, you'd no longer have to return a value

from a reducer that is written with immer.

However, and this is the confusing part.

You still are going to add in a return statement

in each of our cases of a switch statement,

because otherwise switch statements work

in a kind of undesirable fashion, kind of.

It's kind of debatable whether

we want them to work like this or not.

But if you do not put in a return statement

for every case of a switch statement,

then whenever you execute one case

you're gonna run some code in there.

And then JavaScript is going to continue on

and try to run any other cases that match.

Which in our case would be like default here.

So in short, we don't have to return anything

out of the reducer,

but we still want to add in return statements

to each of our different cases of a switch statement.

Okay, so now we understand that this library works.

Let's install it really quickly

and we'll make use of it in just a moment.

So to install it, I'm going to go over to my terminal,

stop the application.

I'll run npm install immer.

Again, it's I M M E R.

I'll then start up my development server again

with an npm run start.

And that's it.

Alright, I'll show you how to use

this library in just a moment.
300
Instructor: Now that we have installed

Immer into our project, I'm going to make use of it

inside of the CounterPage component.

So at the very top,

I'm going to import something called

produce from the Immer library.

Produce is a little bit of magic, it is a function,

we're gonna pass our reducer into it,

and then that's gonna give us back a new function,

kind of a wrapped reducer function,

that is going to allow us to make our changes

directly to the state object.

Now that's kind of fancy talk,

so lemme just show you what we have to do.

We're gonna go down to our useReducer call.

Here it is right here.

I'm gonna find where we pass in reducer,

and I'm going to wrap that with a call to produce.

And that's it, that's all the setup we have to do.

So now we can follow all of these new rules

inside of our reducer.

So we're gonna go into our reducer now

and we're gonna rewrite

each of our different case statements.

We're gonna make sure that

instead of trying to return a new state object,

we just mutate the one

that is coming into our reducer function.

So in total, we're gonna make four changes,

one to each of our different case statements.

So on the first one right here,

I'm going to delete the existing return statement we have,

and we'll replace it with state.count = state.count + 1,

And then I will return, and that's pretty much it.

We're gonna repeat that process four times.

So on the case of decrement count,

I'm gonna delete the return statement.

I will instead do a state.count = state.count - 1,

and return.

On the next one, delete the return statement.

And we'll say state.count = state.count + state.valueToAdd.

And then we can reset valueToAdd back to zero

and then return.

And then finally on set valueToAdd,

delete that, replace it with set, or excuse me,

state.valueToAdd = action.payload, and return.

And then finally, on the default case,

again, we don't have to return anything,

so I'm going to remove the return of state.

Okay, so that's it, let's save this.

Flip back over, quick test.

And now I can still click on increment,

click on decrement, type into the input,

click on add it,

and yep, everything appears to be working pretty well.

So that's it, so that's life with Immer,

it's really kind of just that simple.

By making use of this produce function,

we can make updates directly to our state object,

and we don't have to worry about all that fancy idea of,

hey, I need to create a new object,

copy, paste over all the key value pairs,

then apply and update on top of it.

Now again, I want to warn you, I gotta tell you,

not all projects that you're going to encounter

on your professional career are going to make use of Immer.

So you still have to remember this idea over here,

you still have to remember how to make these state updates

manually, without directly mutating state.

In particular, if you're working on a project

that makes use of plain redux,

you're going to see this pattern used all over the place,

as opposed to making use of Immer, usually, not always,

but usually