262
Instructor: The last big feature

we're gonna add into our table is sorting functionality.

So we want to show a little set of arrows

next to some of the different header cells

inside of our table.

And if user then clicks on this cell right here

or that little header cell right there,

we want to sort all the data inside of our table.

Now implementing sorting

is gonna be just a little bit involved

'cause there's a lot of different topics going on here.

So here's the general plan on how we're going to cover this.

Right now inside this video,

I'm gonna make sure it's super clear

how the sorting inside this table is supposed to work.

We're then going to do a quick review

on how we sort data in general in plain JavaScript.

So nothing to do with React,

we're just gonna take a look at how we sort data in general.

Then we're going to take a look

at how we're going to add in

or implement sorting inside of our table component

because it turns out there are a couple of different options

and I want you to understand the different options.

And there's one in particular

that I think would be a really good decision.

And as we're going through this process,

something that's super important to keep in mind

is that our table component is supposed to be reusable.

So we should be able to take our table component,

hand it off to another engineer

and they should be able to use our table

with totally different data.

So totally different array of objects

that might not represent fruit,

might be totally different objects entirely.

And this other engineer

should be able to use our table component absolutely a-okay

without any issues whatsoever.

That's really important

because it's gonna have a huge impact

on how we design our component.

So just keep that in mind.

Okay, so let's take a look

at how the table is supposed to work.

By default,

whenever we show our table component to the user initially,

all of our data is gonna be in unsorted order.

So we're gonna show a list of rows in exactly the same order

that we are given this data inside of our data array prop.

Remember we're receiving that data array.

There's an array of objects.

So we're gonna take each of those objects one by one

and just print them out on the screen.

That's exactly what we are doing right now.

So we are already printing out our data in unsorted order.

We're then going to imagine

that user clicks on the score header right there.

When they do so,

we want to sort all the different rows inside of our table.

We're going to show only the up arrow

to indicate the user is then sorting this data inside

or using ascending order.

Ascending order means that we're going to print out

the lowest values first and the highest values last.

So right now I still have the data

in this diagram in unsorted order.

If I want to sort this table based upon the score values

in ascending order,

I would put the highest value at the very end.

So I'm gonna take this row right here,

which has a score of five and put it at the bottom.

Then banana would go up here 'cause it has a score of one.

And that's it.

I'm now in ascending order.

There's something super important here

that I want you to understand and keep in your head.

When a user clicks on a header,

we're going to sort some rows.

And when we are doing the sorting operation,

we are not just sorting the data inside of the score column,

we're using that as our sorting criteria.

But as we sort this data,

we are moving around an entire row.

So we're not just moving the numbers around,

we're not just reordering these scores in some way,

we are moving the entire row.

So Apple is always gonna have a score of five.

It wouldn't make sense to try to only reset

or reorder the score values and all of a sudden say,

well, now the five is gonna be along to banana.

That doesn't make any sense.

So whenever we are doing a sorting operation,

we are moving around the entire row

all the data that belongs to this row.

We are using the score as the sorting criteria.

Okay, so that's ascending order,

so now we're going to imagine

the user clicks on the score header again.

When they do so,

we're then going to sort our data in descending order

and that's where we're going to put the highest value first

and the lowest value last.

We're going to update the icon up here

just to tell the user

they are now sorting in descending order.

And then the actual sort order would be something like this.

Apple would be first

'cause it has the highest score and then it would be lime

'cause that's the second highest,

and then orange and then banana.

So I would do something like this

and there we go.

So once again, we are moving an entire row

and we are using these score values

as our criteria for sorting.

Now right away you can kind of start to tell

that as we click on a single cell multiple times in a row,

we're going to kind of progress from being unsorted,

then to ascending, and then to descending.

So there's kind of a cycle going on here

as a user clicks on a single header cell

multiple times in a row.

Initially we're going to be unsorted.

If a user then clicks on score,

we're gonna sort everything in ascending order

based upon the score.

If a user clicks on score again,

we'll then be in descending order.

And if a user clicks on score for a third time in a row,

we're gonna go back to unsorted.

So we've got a cycle that we go through

as a user clicks on a single cell.

There's one variation here

I wanna take a look at on this behavior.

So what would happen if a user clicks on score one time

or two times and then clicks over here on name?

What would we do then?

Well, here's what we're going to do.

Here's how we're gonna handle that.

If a user is sorting on score

in either ascending or descending,

and then the user clicks on any other header cell,

so any other header cell in this case name,

then we're going to immediately sort an ascending order

on that other cell or on that other column.

Now this right here is not super critical

for you to understand or memorize right now.

All I mean to indicate

is that we need to take into account

what happens when a user clicks on score once or twice

and then clicks on another header cell.

That's all I mean to say.

It's just something we need to think about

at some point in time and we need to take that into account.

Okay, so that's it.

So at this point in time,

we've established that user is going to click

on these header cells to store our data in first ascending,

then descending, and then back to unsorted.

And we've also established

that when we are doing some sorting operation,

we are moving entire rows around.

We're just using the value inside of the column

the user clicked on as our sorting criteria.

So now that we have kind of a basic understanding

of how this table component's supposed to work,

we're gonna take a look and get a review

on how we handle sorting in general in JavaScript
263

Instructor: The next thing we're going

to do is take a look at how we handle sorting

in plain JavaScript.

So again, no react whatsoever.

We're just thinking about how we sort arrays of data.

So to understand this, to get a quick reminder,

I'm gonna open up a new file inside my editor.

I'm not going to create or save this file,

so I'm just gonna open up a new file

by hitting Command + N or Control + N.

We're gonna write out a little bit

of code inside of here,

and then we're going to copy-paste that code

and run it over inside of our browser console.

And again, we're just taking a look at basic sorting

of simple values inside of an array.

So let's imagine that we've got a variable called data

and it has some plain numbers inside of it

like five, one, four, and three.

And at some point in time, we might want to,

well, sort this data.

So we might want to sort it in ascending order.

We want to go from the lowest value first

to the highest value last.

If you look this up online,

you'll very quickly see some documentation saying,

"Oh, well, you can just call data.sort."

Sort is a function built into every JavaScript array.

It's gonna try to sort the values inside of your array,

but sort doesn't really work the way we expect.

So let me give you a quick demonstration here.

If I try to sort the values of five, one, four, three,

I'm gonna get back something that looks pretty reasonable.

I get one, three, four, and five.

So it looks like it worked.

It looks like my values are in ascending order,

but well, it doesn't quite work the way we expect.

I'm gonna change the one here to a 10.

It's now I've got 5, 10, 4, 3.

And now if I try to sort this data,

I get back something very unexpected.

I now get 10, 3, 4, and 5.

Clearly not sorted in any reasonable way.

So the sort function built

into JavaScript really doesn't work quite the way you expect

right out of the box.

So here's the issue.

Whenever we call the sort function,

JavaScript is gonna do something very specific

behind the scenes for us.

It's gonna take a look at every element inside the array

and try to sort it, but before it does so,

it's gonna convert those values into strings automatically.

And that's something that we can't quite control

if we're only using sort in this very simple fashion.

That's what we're doing right now.

So to sort the numbers of five, one, four, and three,

we can imagine that JavaScript is gonna turn five

into a string that has the character five inside of it,

turn one into a string of one,

four into a string of four and so on,

and then sort those strings.

So again, not really what we expect and we don't really like

that default basic behavior of JavaScript.

So to fix this,

we need to add in something called a comparator function.

A comparator function is a function we're gonna pass in

as the first and only argument to sort.

This comparator function is gonna help JavaScript understand

exactly how we want to sort the values inside of our array.

So let me show you how we would add

in a comparator function.

Okay, back over here,

I'm gonna pass into sort an arrow function.

This is going to receive arguments

that we usually call a and b.

And then inside the function,

I'm going to return a - b like so.

So now I'm gonna copy this, I'm going to run it,

and I'll see that, yep, that appeared to actually fix it.

So I now see my values in ascending order.

I see 3, 4, 5, and 10.

So what's going on here with the comparator function?

Well, quick diagram. Here we go.

So up here, I've got five, one, four, and three.

The comparative function is going

to be called multiple times.

Every time it is called,

it's gonna be given two different elements out of the array.

The first is gonna be the a value and then the b value.

Now it kinda looks like in this diagram,

I swapped the order here because back inside of our editor,

we are receiving these arguments as a and b.

The second element in a pair is the a argument.

So the first time that our comparative function gets called,

if you console.log out a and b,

you'll see that we initially have an a value of one

and a b of five.

So these two values are not exactly mapped

into like first, 5, and then 10.

They're kind of swapped, they're flipped, so to speak.

Our goal inside this comparative function is

to help tell the sorting algorithm whether

or not these two elements should be swapped in order.

So should we put the one before the five,

or should the five stay before the one?

If we want the a value, so the one in this case,

to go before the b value,

then we need to return a negative number.

If we want the b value to go before the a value,

then we're going to return a positive number.

And if they are the same and should not be swapped,

we're supposed to return a zero.

So one way of implementing this is to put in simply a - b.

So now if a is less than b,

in this case, it is in this diagram anyways,

then we're going to be returning a negative number

and that's a sign that we want to put the one

before the five.

So we're going to swap those two elements.

After we have done that swap,

the sorting algorithm is then going

to call our comparator function again,

but now it's going to be given these two elements,

the next two.

So now a is gonna be four, b is gonna be five.

We're gonna do the same check and return a number saying

whether or not we are supposed to swap these elements.

In this case, we would,

then we would move on to the last two.

Should we swap these two elements? Yes, we should.

And that's it, we end up with our sorted array.

So that's what the comparative function is doing.

So we can sort an array

of numbers using this very simple comparative function

that you see right here.

Okay, so that's basic sorting in JavaScript.

Now we're gonna take a look in just a moment

at two variations on this.

First, how do we swap the order?

Right now, we are always getting back numbers

in ascending order.

So how do we get back numbers in descending order?

And the other thing we need to take a look at is

how would we sort other kinds of values,

such as strings or even objects?

So a little bit more on sort in just a moment.
264
Instructor: The next thing we're going to take a look at

is how we can sort an array of strings.

So I'm going to update my data array.

I'm gonna change it to T, capital A, lowercase A, capital B,

and lowercase B.

Just a little bit ago,

before we introduced this comparator function,

I had told you that by default

JavaScript is gonna take all the elements

inside of an array, turn them into strings,

and then compare them.

So that might lead you to believe

that JavaScript can sort an array of strings really well.

Once again, not quite the case.

So let me demonstrate that to you very quickly.

I'm going to remove the comparator function

because this one is really only designed

to work with numbers.

So I'm gonna try calling data.sort,

and I'm going to see what I get back.

So I'm going to run that,

and I get back something that definitely looks

like it has changed,

but it's not quite what I think I would be looking for

if I was sorting an array of strings.

I see all the capital letters first,

then the lowercase letters.

And I don't know about you,

but personally, I would really expect to see all the A's,

whether they are uppercase or lowercase,

then the B's, and then everything after that.

So once again, the default sorting behavior

is not quite working out for us.

And to fix this, we're gonna put in, once again,

a comparator function to tell sort

exactly how we want to sort our data.

Now, the sorting function,

or the comparator function we had just used,

was designed to work with numbers.

So we need to put in a slightly different implementation

to tell sort how to work with strings.

Alright, I'm gonna receive the arguments A and B

and here's what we're going to do this time.

I'm going to return a.localeCompare B.

Notice that this is locale, it is not local.

So there's an E between the L and the capital C right there.

This is a built-in function

that belongs to all strings in JavaScript.

It allows us to compare two strings,

and it's gonna return a number

of negative one, zero, or positive one.

So this is a function that is kind of specifically made

to help us compare strings in JavaScript,

and be used inside of a sort compare function.

Let's try run running this

and just see if it solves our issue.

And there we go.

So now we've got a sorted result

that makes a lot more sense.

I've got all the A's, and then all the B's,

and then everything after that.

So no longer are we having to worry

about uppercase or lowercase or anything.

Alright, so we've now got a good idea

on how we can sort numbers and how we can sort strings.

So we're going to start to take a look at one last variation

and that is how do we sort an array of objects
265

and every object has a weight, a cost, and a name.

What are all the different ways

that we could sort these objects?

Well, it turns out there are many different ways

we could sort them.

We could decide to sort these objects based upon their name,

so we could try to sort them

in ascending alphabetical order

based upon the name property of every object.

So we would take a look at onion, tomato and carrot.

To sort these alphabetically,

we'd end up with carrot, then onion, and then tomato.

So that is one absolutely valid way

of sorting these objects.

We could also sort these objects based upon their cost

in ascending order.

So we have costs of five, two and seven.

To go in ascending order,

we would end up with that like so.

Once again, totally valid way of sorting these objects.

Another completely valid way would be ascending order

based upon their weight.

So we would end up with the four, 10 and 13.

Once again, completely valid way of sorting these.

Now, all three of these sorts

are kind of obvious and straightforward

but it turns out we can also sort these objects

in less obvious ways that are still completely valid.

So here's an example.

We could try to sort all these objects in ascending order

based upon their cost divided by weight ratio.

So to do this sort, we would first have to look at

each object's cost divided by the weight.

That would then give us a number

that we could use for sorting.

So for the first one, the cost to weight ratio

is five divided by 15 which is roughly 0.33, repeating.

The second one is two divided by 10.

So that is 0.2.

And then lastly, cost of eight divided by four.

That is two.

So now we can take these numbers

and use them to sort the objects in ascending order.

So we would end up with 0.2 first,

then 0.33, and then two.

Once again, completely valid way of sorting these.

We could also sort these on slightly more esoteric

or stranger properties.

So for some crazy reason, we could decide

to sort the objects in ascending order based upon the length

or the number of characters in the name property.

So in this case, onion has five characters, tomato has six

and carrot has six.

So in this case it happens that,

well they are already in ascend order, but once again

totally valid way of doing this.

So when we start to look at sorting objects

we've got a lot more options for doing sorting.

And the common thing here

between all these different sorting operations

is that we're kind of doing a little bit of a transform.

So we are taking a look at a single, or in some cases

multiple different properties of the object.

We're then using that to produce

either a number or a string.

For example, when we were trying to sort these based

upon the cost, we were kind of taking this entire object

and then pulling one single property

out of it, just the cost.

So five, two, oops, two and eight.

And then we used these computed values over here

for doing our sort operation.

So when we are left with just numbers and strings

as we saw in the last two videos

we know how to sort these things really, really well.

So to sort objects, all we really have to do

is implement this one additional transformed step.

We're going to do some calculation

on each object and then use that transformed value

as the basis of our sorting criteria.

All right, so now we've got a general idea

on how we're going to sort objects.

We're gonna try to write out some code

that kinda simulates this in just a moment
266
-: Back over inside this temporary file,

we're gonna write out a couple of quick examples

and figure out how we can very easily

sort an array of objects.

So I'm gonna begin by updating the data array.

I'm gonna put in an array of three different objects.

They're gonna be just like the vegetable objects

we saw a moment ago on those diagrams.

So I'm going to have a name of, how about Tomato?

A cost of 10 and a weight of five.

I'll then have a name of, I don't know, Carrot.

Cost of 15 and a weight of two.

And then a name of, what I use back over here?

Onion, that's a good one.

With a cost of five and a weight of seven.

So there's my array of objects.

Now that I have an array of objects

I can't use the same kind of comparison we were doing before

because this comparison is meant specifically

for comparing strings.

So we're gonna have to update our sort function

a little bit.

Our sort function is now going to do two different things.

It is first going to transform an object.

So it's gonna take a look at a single object

and it's gonna pull off one single property

that we're going to use for our actual comparison.

So we're going to get back a number or a string

and then we're going to use that as our sorting criteria.

So lemme show you how we're going to do that.

We're gonna first take care of this transform step.

I'm going to create a function called getSortValue.

This is going to be called with one vegetable object

at a time.

And from this function, I'm going to return the property

off the object that I want to use as my sorting criteria.

So if I wanted to compare everything based upon its cost

then my getSortValue function,

which is kind of this transformed step right here,

would pull off and return the cost property.

So right here, getSortValue,

I'm going to return vegetable dot cost.

So I've now got a transform function.

I've got a function

that can take in an entire vegetable object

and return back a simple number or a simple string

that I can use to sort this entire object.

So now here's how we would use it.

Inside the sort function,

I'm going to create two new variables called value A

and that's gonna be getSortValue.

And I'm gonna put in the A argument

and then I'll get value B, which will be getSortValue,

and I'll put in B.

So think about what value A and value B are.

These are now going to be two very simple numbers.

So the numbers over here,

kind of like the five, two and eight,

And we know how we can sort numbers.

It's super easy. All we have to do

is return the difference between them.

So we learned that like two videos ago.

So if I return value A minus value B

I can now use this to sort these different objects.

I've done my transformation step,

I've pulled off one particular property

that I want to use as my sorting criteria

and then I am sorting based upon that criteria.

Okay, let's copy this, run it at our console

and down here if I expand this array of objects

I'm going to expect to see all the objects sorted

in ascent order based upon their cost.

So here we go.

I see cost of five, 10, and 15.

So it definitely worked.

Now the nice thing about this approach is

that if we want to sort by any other property

all we have to do is update this one very

very simple function right here.

So if I want to sort by the weight instead

instead of returning the cost property

I would return the weight property.

If I run this now

I will see my three different objects sorted

in terms of increasing or ascent order on weight.

So two, five, and seven.

If we want to make our code work with strings

we have to make just a very small change

to our sort function.

So remember this comparison right here

is only useful when we are trying to sort numbers.

And if we want to sort strings,

we have to use that locale compare function.

So we're gonna make a very small change

to allow us to sort based upon strings.

Before we do, I want to show you one very quick operator

in JavaScript that you just might not be familiar with.

So if I write out type of, and then a number

I'm going to get back a string that says number.

And if I do type of a string

I get back a string that says string.

So keep that in mind for just a moment.

Okay, so now back inside the sort function.

When we call getSortValue,

we're gonna get back either a number or a string.

We're then gonna take a look at value A

and we're going to use this type of thing

to decide if value A is a number or a string.

If it is a number

then we're going to do our number based comparison.

And if it is a string

we're going to return our string based comparison.

So I'm going to do an if statement right here.

I'll say if type of value A is string

then I'm going to return value A locale, compare value B.

Once again, notice that is locale, there's an E on there.

And then otherwise if it is not a string

I'm going to assume it is a number

and so I would do my number based comparison.

There we go.

So now with this implementation

our getSortValue function can return

either a number or a string,

and we're going to do our sorting operation correctly

based upon either one.

So now for example, we could return the vegetables name.

The vegetables name is a string

so now we're going to do this comparison

and use that for our sorting criteria.

If I copy this and run it,

now we should see in ascending alphabetical order,

carrot, onion, and tomato.

Okay, so that's pretty much it.

This right here, the code that we have,

is a really, really reasonable way

of sorting an array of objects.

If we ever want to change our sorting criteria

the property we're using for sorting

all we have to do is make a very simple update

to one very simple function.

And the only requirement is that from this function

we return either a number or a string

And whatever we return that's gonna be used

to sort the overall array of objects.

One last variation I wanna show you here.

If we wanted to find that cost divided by weight ratio,

it would be vegetable dot cost

divided by vegetable dot weight.

So you can see really quickly how easy it is

to change out our sorting criteria.

So now we can run that and I should see everything sorted

in increasing cost divided by weight.

So the first one right here is five divided by seven

so that's less than one.

That right there would be a ratio of two

and the ratio about 7.5.

So once again, an increasing or ascending order.

Okay, so this is a pretty good solution

for sorting arrays of objects.

There's only one missing thing

and that is making sure that we can flip the sorting order.

So right now we are always going

in ascending or increasing order.

So last thing we have to do

is figure out how we can flip this order

and get either ascending or descending.
267
Instructor: The last thing we have to figure out

is how we can change the sort order very easily.

So I want to very easily go from ascending order,

which is what our current sort implementation always does

and I want to very easily be able to change it

out to descending order.

Now to do this, I want you to recall

that from this sort function right here

we are really supposed to return

a negative number, a positive number or zero.

And that is used to decide whether or not

the elements A and B should be swapped

inside the array that we're trying to sort.

So one way that we could very easily swap our order

is to just take the value that we're about to return

and multiply it by negative one.

If we do so, we're going to swap the order.

So lemme give you a very quick example of that.

Down here on the number comparison,

I'm gonna wrap that with a set of parentheses

and then multiply by negative one.

And then I am going to use sorting criteria

of just the vegetable cost.

So now I would expect to see all my vegetables sorted

in descending order based upon the cost.

Let's try that out.

And so now I see decreasing cost.

I start at 15, then 10 and then five.

So to change our order, all we have to do is flip

or multiply these values right here by negative one.

That's pretty much it.

But having to put in a manual negative one right here

is a little bit tedious.

I don't want to have to like, copy paste this

or remove it every time I want to flip the order.

So let's come up with a slightly better solution.

Here's one different way of doing this.

I'm gonna add in a new variable

right above the sort function called sort order.

And I'm gonna have it be a string of ASC

which is short for ascending.

Then right above the if statement,

I'm going to add in another new variable of flip,

how about reverse order?

That's better.

And then this variable is going to be

sort order equal to ASC.

If this is equal,

if sort order is the string ASC

then I'm going to assign a number of one to reverse order.

Otherwise, I'll assign negative one.

I've got a ternary expression right here.

Remember how this works?

If this evaluates to true,

I'm going to get back

whatever is right after the question mark.

Otherwise I will get negative one.

So all we're doing here is saying

if the sort order variable is equal to ASC,

give me back a number one.

Otherwise, gimme back negative one.

Then I can take this reverse order and multiply either that

or that down there by reverse order.

So I'm gonna add in times reverse order

and times reverse order.

And again, make sure you wrap the difference right there,

that calculation in parentheses.

If you don't do so,

That's a very different calculation.

So we definitely want to have the parentheses in there.

Alright, let's now copy this.

I'm gonna run it.

And now I'm gonna see all my objects sorted

in a sending order based upon the cost.

And if I want to get these in descending order

all I have to do is change these sort order variable.

So I'm gonna change it to DESC for descending.

Now if I run this

I will get my objects back in descending cost.

Okay, so this looks good.

So I want to kind of highlight

exactly what we have done here.

We have now come up with a solution

for sorting any kind of array of objects.

It doesn't have to be just vegetables.

This can be any kind of objects

with any different variety of different properties.

And to change these sort order and the sorting criteria

all we have to do is make a very simple change

to the get sort value function.

And if we want to change the order,

all we have to do is toggle

the sort order variable right here

between ASC or DESC.

And that's gonna swap the order entirely.

So this is super powerful.

We've now got the ability to sort anything

in any kind of order.

Really fantastic.

And as you can probably imagine

this is gonna be extremely helpful

when we are trying to sort the data for our table.

So we've now got a really good sorting implementation.

Time to take this back into the world of react

and figure out how we're going to actually implement this
268
Instructor: We have completed our review

of handling sorting in JavaScript.

So now we're gonna move on to the next step,

which is to look at some options for adding

and sorting to our table.

Now, as we go over this, I want you to really keep

in your mind that our table component is really supposed

to be reusable in nature.

Okay, so quick review on what is going on

inside of our table.js file right now.

So this is the table.js file right here.

Inside of that component, we've got three general sections.

We've got one section for showing all the header cells,

one for rendering out all the different rows

and then at the bottom of the component,

we create and return our table element.

So, that is the current table component

and it's relatively simple and straightforward in nature.

It's definitely not too bad.

But as we start to add in some sorting logic,

I want you to keep something in mind.

Remember, the table component is supposed to be reusable

so we should be able to have one table component

and use it just about anywhere in our application.

With that in mind, I want you to imagine for just a moment

that we are making some kind of movie review

or movie listing application, and inside of our application

we might need to show different tables

with a bunch of different movies on them.

So inside of our imaginary app,

we might have one table up here at the top

that always shows exactly three different movies.

A table with only three records

probably doesn't need to be sortable.

We definitely could, but we just plain might not

want this table to be sortable in any way.

So, we don't want to allow a user to sort based

on title or year.

But then later on down the page, we might have another table

that has many, many rows inside of it

and we might want this table to be fully sortable,

so we should be able to sort

based upon title, year, revenue, or whatever else.

The takeaway here is that we might want to have

two different versions, so to speak, of our table component.

One that shows a sortable table

and then one that is not sortable at all.

So with that in mind, as we think about adding in

additional code to our table component,

here's what we're really talking about.

We have to add in probably some amount of states

to keep track of all this sorting stuff.

We probably need a click event handler to watch

for a user clicking on header cell.

We probably need to improve the rendering of the headers

to make sure that they also show some sort direction icons.

So that's these little icons right here.

And then we also need to add in some actual sorting logic,

something to actually take the data and actually sort it

so we can render out some rows based upon the assorted data.

So this is a total minimum.

And then if we want to add in some additional functionality

that allows us to show a table that is either sortable

or unsortable, well then for every one of these

little additional bits of code, we might have to put in

some extra if statements, some extra checks.

So for the function that's gonna handle a click on a header,

we might need to put some code inside there

to make sure that sorting actually is enabled

for this table.

When we render out the headers, we might need to put

in an if statement to say that if sorting is enabled,

we want to show some or add in some icons.

And then when we put in the sorting logic,

we only want to run that sorting logic

if sorting actually is enabled and turned on.

So you can see really, really quickly here

that if we want to make a sortable version of our table

and a non-sortable version, well, things are going to get

a little bit confusing inside that component.

So we absolutely can add a ton of sorting logic

to the table.

Absolutely no two ways about it.

We can stuff a ton more logic inside there

but if we want to have a really reusable table

that can be sorted or not sortable at all, well,

maybe there's a better way for us to do this.

Maybe we can think of some better way to organize our code

to still have kind of two separate versions of the table.

One that can be sorted and one that is not sortable at all.

So my question here is, is there a better way to do this?

Can we somehow implement our table without just stuffing

a ton of additional code inside the table.js file?

So that's what we're going to explore.

We're gonna try to figure out a better way of doing this
269
Instructor: So the question here is,

can we add in sorting to our table without adding

in a ton of additional code into the table.js file?

And the answer is absolutely yes.

It turns out we can add in sorting,

changing only about three lines of code

to the table component itself.

Now, we are going to add in an additional file

to our project.

So I don't mean to say we can add in sorting

without any code, we definitely have to write some code.

But to the table.js file itself,

we really are only going to change

about three lines of code, and that's it, believe it or not.

So to help you understand what we're gonna do,

we're gonna first make a very small change to our project.

It's gonna seem like a very strange, unimportant,

not relevant change at all, but trust me,

it's super important.

After we make this change,

we're then going to get a deeper dive

into how we're going to approach all this sorting stuff.

So here we go, here's the change.

As a quick reminder, inside of our table page component

we are creating an array of config objects.

These config objects describe the different columns

we want to have inside of our table.

And right now, they all have two different properties,

they have label and render.

Label is being used to decide

what text to put inside the header.

And render is a function that is being used

to decide what values to put inside of every cell

inside that column.

So this is all stuff

that is already happening inside of our project.

There's one little small deficiency inside of our project

right now, inside the table,

and that is that these header cells

are always represented using a plain th element

that shows a columns label directly inside of it.

And that's it, that's the only option we have right now.

And so I got a little question here,

what if we wanted to put in something other

than a th element or just a plain single th element?

Maybe we want to have a th that contains an H1,

that has a columns label inside of it.

Maybe we want to put in a th

that has a button element or something like that.

The point is we might want to customize

this header cell right here in some way,

we might not always want to show just a plain th.

So how could we allow ourselves to customize

these little header cells?

Well, we could take a very similar approach

to what we did with the render function.

So here's what we're gonna do to allow us

to customize these header cells a little bit.

We're gonna allow for an optional extra property

to be provided on those different config objects,

so there's going to be a new optional property.

In other words,

we don't have to add this into every config object,

we're gonna call it header.

And it's going to be a function

that is going to decide what we should display right there.

Ultimately, we are going to always display the label,

but besides the label, is there anything else?

Is there something else we should show right there?

So that's the very small change we're going to make,

we're gonna add in this optional property.

And then inside of our table component,

when we go to render out all these different headers,

we're gonna say, if there is a header function provided

on a given config object,

we're gonna use that function to decide

what to show right here.

Otherwise, we're going to just show the label and that's it.

So that's the plan, that's what we're going to do.

So let's start on the implementation on this

in just a moment.
270
Instructor: Alright my friends, let's add in support

for this extra additional optional property

that we can attach to these different config objects.

So our goal here is to be able to customize

this header cell only.

I want to show this header cell with a red background.

And I want all the others

to be pretty much exactly as they are.

So that's our goal.

That's what we're going to try to do.

So to implement this,

I'm gonna first go back to our TablePage.js file.

Here's table page.

I'm gonna find the array of config objects.

I'm gonna find the object

responsible for rendering the score column.

Here it is right here.

So to customize how this column's header cell

is rendered out onto the screen,

I'm gonna add in a new header property.

That's going to be a function.

So this function needs to return the exact JSX

that I want to display as the header cell for this column.

And like I just said,

I want it to be a th element that has a red background.

So I'm going to return a th that has a label of score.

So it's still gonna say score.

And then I'm going to give it a class name of bg-red-500.

That class name is going to give me my red background.

Now, of course, if we save this,

nothing is gonna be different on the screen

because we are not making use of this header property yet.

So we now have to go over to our table component.

And when we are building up our list of headers,

when we are rendering them all out,

we now need to take a look

at these different config objects

and decide whether we should build up

a default standard th element

or try to use this extra custom function

to build up a particular columns header cell.

So to do that, we'll go back over to table.js.

Here's table.js.

Up here at the top,

this is where we build up the list of headers.

So we are mapping over the config array of objects.

We then receive each of those objects

as variable called column.

So now this column object right here

might have a property called header.

And if it does, that's gonna be a function

that we want to call

and we want to return the result

instead of our default th element.

So all we have to add inside of here

is if the column object has a header property

that is defined, then we're going to return

the result of calling column.header.

So this is a super straightforward change.

Once again, all we're doing is saying that when we build up

a th or a header for this object,

we're gonna use the default th,

this is gonna get a default th

but this object when we map over it,

because it has a defined header property,

we're going to call this function.

We're gonna get back a th like that one right there.

And we're going to use that

to represent the header for this column.

Okay, so now if we save this and flip back over,

we are gonna get in a little warning message

around a missing key prop.

We'll take care of that in just a moment.

But more importantly, you'll notice that now

we've got a customized header.

So we've got a hh element that has a red background.

So this seems really not useful at all, right?

Who cares about a red background?

Well, the point is we can now customize

all of the different header cells

displayed inside of our table,

and it really might not seem important at all.

I understand that, it might not seem important at all

but this is going to allow us

to do something very very important.

We can now control exactly what is being displayed

inside of all of these different headers.

And again, I know that might not seem relevant.

So we're gonna take a pause right here.

We're gonna come back in just a moment.

We're gonna fix up this warning message

about a missing key prop

and then we're going to have a deep discussion

and understand why having control

over what is displayed up here is super, super powerful.
271
Instructor: We are going to have a discussion

on why being able to customize these header cells

is super important,

but before we do,

let's solve this warning around a missing key prop.

So what is the issue here?

Well, remember, whenever we map over

our list of config objects,

we are returning some different JSX elements

and these JSX elements, because they are part of a list,

must have a key prop assigned to them.

When we return the result of calling column.header,

we are returning this th back over here

inside of TablePage,

and this th does not have a key prop assigned to it,

and that's why we are seeing this warning message.

So to fix this up, one thing we could do,

this isn't very good,

but we could just add in a key prop manually to this th.

So I could put in something like a key of asdf,

and if I save that and refresh,

the warning message will go away.

But I don't really like this solution,

and the reason is simple.

Remember, TablePage is a component that is being created

by some other developer on my project.

I don't want other developers to have to worry

about manually adding in key props like this.

This is just a tedious thing,

and other developers just plain might not know

that if they provide this header function,

they must return an element

that has a key prop assigned to it.

I don't think that's good practice.

I don't want other engineers to have to worry about this.

So even though this works,

I'm not gonna use it as a solution.

We're gonna have to think of something else.

So let's go back over to Table.js.

So our real goal here

is to make sure that every single time this function runs,

we are returning a JSX element

that has a key prop assigned to it.

So another way to fix this

would be to wrap the result of calling column.header

with some other element, like say a div.

I'm going to then wrap column.header with curly braces,

because that is a JavaScript expression,

and now right here I've got a JSX element

that I can assign a key prop to.

So I could give this div a key of column.label.

So now I've got a div with a key prop.

Well, that should work, right?

Well, if we save this and then refresh,

we're going to see a different error message.

This error message is related to something

we spoke about a little bit ago.

Whenever React tries to show a table,

it's gonna validate the HTML structure of your table.

So we're now seeing a warning message coming from React,

saying that we are trying to display a div inside of a tr,

and that is not valid HTML.

We could just let this warning occur

and just not worry about it,

but I think we should try to solve it.

So we should make sure that from this thing right here,

we are ultimately only going to be returning a th element.

So putting a div right here, not gonna work.

Not a good solution.

So let's just try replacing that div with a th instead.

Okay, if we save this and refresh,

well, now we're getting another error.

This error says that we are displaying a th inside of a th.

So this kinda makes sense, right?

Here we are creating a th element

and column.header also returns a th element.

So again, yet again, still not a good solution.

So what it kind of feels like here

is that we need to put in

some kind of JSX element right here

just so we can assign a key prop to it,

but we don't actually want to display

any HTML element inside the dom.

That's what we're really trying to do.

We just want to put something here

so we could assign a key prop,

but we don't want to show anything inside the dom,

because any element we could possibly put right here

is gonna be invalid.

There's no valid element that we could display here.

So here's one possible way we could solve this.

At the top of my file, I'm going to define a new component

just for a moment.

Normally we would not define two components

inside of a single file.

That's just a quick demonstration,

and I'm going to make a component called Echo.

Echo is going to receive some children,

and it's just going to return those children.

So what does this allow me to do?

Well, now I've got something I can use as a JSX element.

I can put in Echo right there.

I can assign it a key prop.

It's gonna take in some children,

and when I render my Echo component,

it's just gonna give me those children back.

So I've now got something that I can assign a key prop to,

but it doesn't actually produce anything

that's gonna be placed into the dom,

so I won't have to worry

about having a valid table structure.

So now if I save this and flip back over,

the error has gone away.

Now fortunately, even though this solves the issue,

we don't have to create

this kind of imaginary Echo component every single time

that we are inside of this kind of situation.

Turns out that React actually provides us by default

with a component that does pretty much exactly this.

This is a built-in component inside of React

called a Fragment.

So at the top of my file,

I'm going to replace Echo with Fragment,

and I'm going to import that from React.

So you can think of this

as being like an extremely simple component

that we're going to use

anytime that we need to provide that key prop

or something like that,

but we don't actually

want to have anything show up in the dom.

So I'm gonna replace Echo right here

with Fragment, and Fragment,

and now if I save this and go back over and refresh again,

I still do not see any error.

So again, Fragment is like

a very, very simple custom component

that we can use

just so we can assign things like a key prop or group,

different child elements together, stuff like that,

without having to make our own kind of custom component.

Okay, so this looks good.

We've now got a good solution.

Now that we are no longer getting these key errors,

we can start to investigate

why being able to customize these header cells

is so important.
272
Instructor: All right my friends, I'm really excited

because in this video we get to do the big reveal.

We're gonna understand how we're going

to implement sorting inside of our table,

and here is the amazing part.

We are not gonna change the Table component at all.

That's right, the Table.js file, it is done.

We're not making any changes to this.

You can close this file and never reopen it.

We don't have to change anything

inside there to implement sorting.

So, that's the big magic, that's the big reveal.

And this is really gonna be fantastic

'cause we're gonna learn a lot around reusing components

in React by putting this stuff together.

Okay, so to help you understand

how we're gonna implement sorting

without changing the Table component at all

I'm gonna walk you through a couple of things we've learned

over the last few videos,

and at the end I'm gonna show you

exactly what we're going to do.

Okay, so here's the first thing that we absolutely know

for sure inside of our current project,

we have a Table component.

It receives an array of objects called data

that we want to render out on the screen.

We also pass down an array of objects called config.

Each object inside of here describes

how to display a different column inside the table.

The Table component very critically

doesn't really care anything about this array of objects.

All it knows is give me an array of objects,

I will render it as a table, that's it.

Okay, next thing we learned.

So, we went over sorting of objects in great detail.

We learned that given any kind of array of objects

we can sort this array of objects

in any way we can possibly imagine

by implementing this getSortValue function.

Remember going over that?

I've still got the code snippet we wrote out right here.

So, we realized that by changing this

very, very simple function right here

we could sort our table in dramatically different ways.

We also learned that we could change the sort order

by very easily changing this variable called sortOrder.

So, this would determine whether we are going

to sort our table in ascending or descending order.

Okay, so now using this whole revelation right here,

just thinking about this for a moment,

I want to point out something

around our table really quickly.

So, here's our table.

We eventually want to be able to sort

the values inside of this table

whenever a user clicks on the Name column

or the Score column.

If a user clicks on the Score column

we want to sort all these different rows

based upon these values, based upon the score.

And if a user clicks on the Name column

we want to sort all the rows based upon the names.

So, that kind of implies that whenever a user clicks on Name

we definitely need to have a function around,

a getSortValue function.

That's gonna look like this.

So, a function that is going to be executed

with every object inside our data array,

and we're gonna pull off and return fruit.name.

That will allow us to sort all the different rows,

all the different objects inside of the data array,

based upon the Name property.

And likewise over here, whenever a user clicks on Score,

same exact thing.

We probably need a getSortValue function

that's going to allow us to pull off the score

of every object inside of data

and sort the table based upon the Score property.

So, we definitely need a function like that,

and a function like that.

So, I just wanna think for a moment,

where would it make sense to define a function like that?

We're talking about describing what should happen,

or the general behavior of a column.

Well, I think we kind of know the answer here.

We've got these config objects.

These config objects have several different properties

that describe exactly what a column should look like,

what content it should display.

And now possibly we could add in an additional property

to these config objects, and that's what we're going to do.

So, we're gonna add in another optional property

to the config objects called sortValue.

This is the getSortValue function we've been talking about.

I'm just giving it a slightly different name here,

a simpler one called sortValue.

So, this is going to be an optional function,

and it's gonna describe how to extract values

from every object inside of our data array

whenever this column right here is clicked.

So, this column, the object described in that column,

is probably gonna have a sortValue function.

And the Name one over here probably will as well

so that we understand exactly how to sort our data

whenever a user clicks on one of these different headers.

Okay, so now using this knowledge,

understanding that we probably are going to make

one last update to these config objects.

Here's now where everything gets tied together,

here's the true big reveal.

So, here's the magic, at the top up here

I've got the TablePage component.

Down here at the bottom of this diagram

I've got our Table component.

We're going to create a new

custom component called SortableTable.

SortableTable is gonna have a ton of logic inside of it

dedicated to just sorting our data,

showing header cells that are going to be clickable,

and whenever a user clicks on one of those header cells

it's gonna sort our data.

Internally, SortableTable is going to use

the Table component.

So, we're going to reuse the exact same Table component

exactly as it is right now inside the Table.js file.

We're going to use that component

from inside of this new SortableTable.

So, the only thing that SortableTable does

is add in some, through kind of a fancy process,

it adds in some additional sorting functionality.

And it's gonna do this using the following technique.

So, here we go, here's what's gonna happen.

Inside of TablePage we're going to still have our data array

and our array of config objects.

These config objects are now going to have this

brand new sortValue property I just mentioned,

so that's gonna be a function that describes

how to extract values from these data objects over here

and use those values to sort our data.

We're gonna pass down data and config

into this new component called SortableTable.

SortableTable really is not a component

around displaying fancy content on the screen.

Instead, all SortableTable really does is modify

some props that are going to go down to the Table component

and add in a click event handler here or there

and implement the actual sorting logic.

So, in particular, here's what SortableTable is going to do.

SortableTable is going to receive

the config array of objects.

It's gonna look at each object inside of that array,

and it's gonna check to see if each of those objects

has a sortValue function.

If an object does have that sortValue function

then we're going to assume this column should be sortable.

Some columns inside of our application

are gonna be sortable and some aren't.

So, Score and Name are sortable, but Color isn't.

So, if a column is sortable

because it has that sortValue function

then here's where the magic occurs.

The SortableTable is gonna update the config object

for that particular column, and it's gonna add in

a header property, that header function,

that function that returns a header cell.

And that header property, that header function,

is gonna return a header cell that is clickable.

Inside of SortableTable we're going to attach

a click event handler to that header cell.

So, whenever a user clicks on that header cell

SortableTable is going to know about that click,

it's gonna receive that click.

It's gonna say, "Oh, someone just clicked on this

little header cell I created."

So, SortableTable is then going to sort the data

in response to that user click

and pass down the updated sortedData

down to our Table component down here.

And that's it, that's the magic.

So, the one part here that I think

immediately is a little bit confusing

is to clarify one thing.

So, here's the clarification,

here's the part that I think is a little bit unexpected.

Back inside of TablePage

here's our array of config objects,

and we just went through this process of adding in support

for this header property right here.

I'm saying, this is the goal,

I do not want TablePage to define

this header property anymore.

Instead, if I want to mark this column as being sortable

all I should have to do is add in a function

of something like sortValue,

and this is going to describe how to take an object

out of our data array and extract a property

that we can sort on, so like fruit.score.

Because this object now has a sortValue property

as soon as SortableTable sees that object SortableTable,

so inside SortableTable we are going to add in

a header property that's going to return a th

that shows the text score.

And whenever a user clicks on this thing

we're going to run some logic

that is going to do our actual sorting.

So, this property right here, this is going to be added

onto this object inside of SortableTable.

That's kind of the magic part,

that's why we added in this header property.

So, now SortableTable is gonna understand

whenever a user clicks on one of these different th's.

It can immediately see that a user clicked on one,

it can do the sorting operation,

it can update this th element

to show some little appropriate icon in here.

So, like a little uptick to say,

"Hey, we're currently sorting

in ascending order based upon score."

That's the magic part.

So, that's all logic that's going to be implemented

inside of SortableTable.

So, ultimately, all SortableTable does

is kind of process this config object,

add in that additional property

for some of our different columns,

and then watch for those click events.

Whenever a click event occurs

it's gonna do the sorting operation

and then pass the sortedData down into Table.

And Table ultimately is responsible

for actually showing content on the screen.

I'm gonna undo those changes I just made back over here.

That was just a quick demonstration.

Okay, so that's it, that's the general plan.

Now, the absolute benefit to this approach

is that we're going to be left with two separate components.

We're going to have SortableTable,

which we can use anytime that we want to show a table

that should be sortable.

And we're also gonna have the original Table component

exactly as it stands right now,

and it's gonna show a simple table

with no sorting attached to it whatsoever.

So, we're going to have implemented our original goal here

where we can show inside of our table, or excuse me,

our application a table that is not sortable

and a table that is sortable.

So, this should be a lot of fun.

This is gonna be a great exercise

in how we can get fantastic code reuse in React.

If you can't tell, I'm really excited

so let's get started in just a moment
273
Instructor: Refactoring our code

to add in this SortableTable component

is not gonna be super complicated,

but there's just a lot of little steps.

So I put together a little set of guides here

on exactly what we're gonna do step by step.

So step one, we're gonna create a new component

called SortableTable.

This is going to be displayed by the TablePage component.

For right now, we're going to take all the props

that SortableTable is going to receive

and pass them directly through to the Table component.

So right now, again,

SortableTable is really just gonna receive some props,

show Table, and pass all the props along to Table.

All right, to get started back, inside my editor,

inside the components directory,

I'm gonna make a new file called SortableTable.js.

Inside of here, I'm going to declare my component.

I'm going to export it.

I want SortableTable to show the Table component.

So at the top,

I will immediately import Table from ./Table.

And then inside of SortableTable,

we're gonna take the entire props object.

So notice I do not have any curly braces here.

I'm taking the entire object,

I'm going to return an instance of Table,

and I'm just gonna pass all these properties

through to Table.

And remember, I can do that very easily

by putting down {...props}.

I'm then going to save this file,

and that's pretty much it for step one.

So now step two,

we're gonna make sure that TablePage shows SortableTable.

So TablePage is no longer going

to show the Table component directly.

We are trying to make our Table sortable,

so we're gonna show SortableTable instead.

Back inside of TablePage.js, at the very top,

I'm no longer going to import the Table component.

I'm now going to import SortableTable

from ../components/SortableTable.

I'm gonna comment out Table for right now.

We're eventually gonna use it again just to prove,

hey, yeah, we can still show a Table that is unsortable.

But for right now,

we're only going to be making use of SortableTable.

Then down at the bottom of this file,

I'm not gonna show a Table,

I'm going to show SortableTable.

Okay, let's save this.

Back inside the browser,

we should still have the exact same table on the screen.

So right now all we've done

is added in this additional component

that does absolutely nothing.

It doesn't do anything whatsoever.

It just takes some props and passes them through

to another component.

So now here is where things are going

to get a little bit more interesting.

We're gonna go back to the TablePage component.

We're gonna find our column config array of objects

and we're going to add in a sortValue function

to every config object that should be sortable,

every column that should be sortable.

So for you and I, for what we are trying to build right now,

only name and score are supposed to be sortable.

Whenever a user clicks on the name column right here,

we want to extract the name property off

of every fruit object

and we're going to use those names as our sorting criteria.

So the sortValue function, for this column,

is gonna receive a fruit object and return just the name.

We're gonna do the same thing for score as well,

but this function is going to take in

the entire fruit object and return just the score.

All right, so back inside of TablePage,

I'm gonna find our config objects right here.

On Name, I'm going to add in a sortValue function.

So this is going to take a fruit

and it's going to return the value that we want to sort on

so that's gonna be fruit.name.

And then for Score down here, I'm gonna add on sortValue.

This is going to receive a fruit and return fruit.score.

And now right away, you're going to notice that yes,

the render function and the sortValue functions

look very, very similar.

Shockingly similar you might say.

And so you're probably immediately curious,

do we really need both functions?

And the answer is, in my opinion, absolutely yes.

Because, eventually, if we are trying to customize

how the score is displayed on the screen,

this function might not just return just the score,

nothing else.

If we want to display the score really large with bold text,

we might wrap this thing with, say,

an h1 element or something similar.

And so now we can no longer use the result,

this render function, as sorting criteria.

So even though right now, yes,

render and sortValue look very, very similar,

eventually for a more complicated Table,

it's extremely possible

that eventually they will return

very different kinds of data.

And so, and h1, not something we can sort on very easily.

So we probably do need to have two separate functions.

Okay, there we go.

So now all of our different objects have only label,

label, there we go, render and sortValue.

The second one has only label and render

because it is not going to be sortable.

And then down here, label, render, sortValue.

Okay, back to our steps.

I already removed the header property from the last video.

I removed the header property

because the header is gonna be set up

by the SortableTable now.

The SortableTable is setting up that header cell

so that it can watch for click events on it.

So it's the SortableTable component's job

to set up the headers on these different config objects.

So make sure you do not have a header function defined

on these anymore.

Onto step four.

So inside of SortableTable,

we're now going to add in a little bit of logic.

We're going to receive the config prop

and we're going to take a look at all the objects

inside there.

We're gonna find the objects that have a sortValue property.

If they have a sortValue property,

we're going to assume that means

that this column should be sortable.

So we want to add in a custom header function

to describe exactly how that column's header cell

should be rendered.

And we're doing this specifically

so we can display an element as each header

where we can attach a click event handler.

That's why we're doing this.

Okay, so let's do that back inside of SortableTable.

So now I do want to access some values inside

of my props object,

but I still want to take all the remaining props

and pass them through to Table.

So to do this, I'm going to add in a line right after this.

I'm gonna pull out config from props like so.

So now I've got the config array of objects,

but I still got the entire props reference

and I'm still gonna pass all the props through to Table.

Now, one thing I wanna clarify on this step,

I'm saying that we're going to look

at all these different column config objects

and we're gonna find the ones with the sortValue property

and we're going to add a header function to them.

To be really precise here,

we're not going to modify our props in any way.

In React, we do not modify props ever for any reason.

So when I say "add," what I really mean to say here

is we are going to map over these column config objects.

And if we find a column config object

with a sortValue property,

we're going to return a new object

that has all the same properties

as the existing column config object,

but it's gonna have an additional property as well.

It's gonna have this header function.

So all I mean to say is that we are not trying

to modify this variable right here.

We're not modifying that array.

We're not modifying the objects inside there.

We're going to take those and use those objects

as the basis for a new set of config objects.

So here's how we're gonna do that.

I'm going to put down a new variable called updatedConfig.

I'm going to map over all those config objects.

I'm going to receive each object one at a time.

I'm going to call them column.

So column is going to be one of those config objects

that we had defined back inside of TablePage.

Then inside of here, I'm gonna say if there is not,

so if not column.sortValue.

So if this column is not supposed to be sortable, great.

I don't care about this object.

So just immediately return it. I don't care.

But if it does have a sortValue property,

then I want to return a brand new object

that has all the same properties,

all the same keys and values as this column object,

but it's also going to have a header function,

aa header function to customize the header

that gets displayed.

So here's how we're going to do that.

I'm going to return a new object

that's gonna have all the keys and values

of the existing column object,

but now it's also going to have a header function as well.

And remember, this header function is going to return a TH

and this is what is going to be used

to display some content right there.

So for right now,

I'm going to try to print out the columns label.

So column.label, and then I'm going to add in IS SORTABLE.

So when we eventually display this on screen,

the columns that are sortable should say Name is sortable,

Score is sortable, but Color should not be sortable.

So this is going to be evidence

that we can kind of customize these headers

and detect which ones should be sortable

and which ones shouldn't.

Okay, that's all we have to do right now

for generating these new config objects.

We're gonna add in some click event handlers

to these THs in just a moment.

Right now, we won't worry about it.

Let's just kind of test what we have for right now.

So we've got updatedConfig here.

This is our updated list of config objects.

So now we need to make sure we pass that list down

into our Table component.

So the Table component uses these new config objects

we have put together.

So at Table down here, I'm gonna pass down a config prop

and it's gonna be the updatedConfig.

...props right here, that has a config property,

but because we are listing out the config prop

later on inside this element,

the config property that is present inside of props

will be overwritten.

So there's two sets of config.

We are overriding the previous one

by adding in config right there after ...props.

Okay, let's save this.

Now if I go back over.

Exactly what we want, exactly what we want.

So we see Name is sortable,

Color is not gonna be sortable, Score is sortable.

So this is a huge and very, very good step.

This is evidence that we can kind of inject

or insert this additional component inside

of our component hierarchy

that's gonna read in some props,

massage them a little bit in some way,

and then pass those props on to another component.

So fantastic progress.

All we really have to do now

like you would be kind of surprised

at how little work we have to do from here.

All we really have to do is watch for click events

on that header TH.

Whenever a user clicks on it,

we need to simply sort our data

and pass the result down into Table.

That's pretty much it.

There's gonna be a couple of extra steps here.

Showing the actual icons

is gonna be just a little bit of work.

You know, those little up and down icons

to indicate the current sort direction.

Believe it or not, that's gonna be a little bit of work.

But as far as the basic functionality of sorting data,

we are shockingly close, believe it or not.

So not a lot to go here.
274
Instructor: Onto step number five, we need to watch

for click events on the TH elements that are being returned

from those header functions that we are attaching

to inside of SortableTable.

So back inside of SortableTable,

we want to detect a user clicking

on these different TH elements.

I'm gonna first begin by adding in a click event handler

called handleClick and I'm going to assume

that this function is going to be called

with a label of the column that the user just clicked on.

So I'm going to receive that label.

And for right now, I'm just gonna console.log it.

So when we call handleClick

we need to make sure that we pass in the label

of the column that the user just clicked on.

All right, so down here on the TH

I'm going to attach a onClick prop.

I'm gonna put in an arrow function

and whenever this arrow function gets called

I'm going to invoke handleClick,

and to pass in the label of the column

that was just clicked on,

when I call handleClick

I'm gonna take that column argument right there,

that we are receiving inside of our mapping function,

and I'm gonna pass in column.label, like so.

So now whenever a user clicks on a TH

we're gonna run handleClick

and we're passing in the columns label.

So if I save this and go back over to the browser,

now I should be able to click on Name IS SORTABLE

and I'll see Name.

I should be able to click on Color

and see nothing happen because that column is not sortable,

so I don't want to watch for click events on it.

And then if I click on Score IS SORTABLE, I will see Score.

So I can click on both those

and I see the appropriate console logs.

Very good.
275
Instructor: Onto step number six.

Whenever a user clicks on our TH,

we need to sort our data

and get it visible on the screen.

Put another way, whenever we click on a TH,

our expectation is that the content

on the screen should change.

And so right away, as usual,

it's a sign that we need some states.

So we need to add some state

to our sortable table component.

We are adding the state in just to make sure

that whenever a user clicks on header,

we somehow re-render our component

and get some different data visible on the table.

Now we need to figure out what state we should have.

We need to design our state.

I'm not gonna make us go through

that entire state design process,

but I do want to consider two different options

for our state design.

And we're gonna look at two different options

because I think the first option is something

that you might decide to do if you are a beginner

and I want to help you understand

why this first option is not a very good idea.

Okay, so here's one possible way

that we could add in some state

to our sortable table component.

And again, the goal of the state is to make sure

that whenever a user clicks on header,

we update some content on the screen

and we show some newly sorted data.

So in option number one,

we could have our state be the sorted version

of the data array.

So here's the data array.

That is the array of fruit objects.

It's gonna come down as a prop into sortable table.

So we could have this sorted data piece of state.

This would be the sorted version of data.

Whenever a user clicks on a header,

we're going to re-sort data in some different way,

update our state and then pass the state

as a prop down into the table component.

Now again, this is probably not a good idea

and again, I want to help you understand why.

So here's the first reminder I want to give you.

The first reminder is that whenever a user clicks on a cell

multiple times in a row,

we're gonna go through a little sorting progression.

So initially, every cell,

every header cell is going to be unsorted.

So the entire table, not sorted at all.

If a user then clicks on a single header cell,

we're then going to sort all the data

based upon that column in ascending order.

If the user clicks on the same header cell again,

we're then going to sort in descending order.

And if user clicks on the same cell yet again,

we go back to unsorted order.

So this really, really implies

that inside of our handle click function right here

or kind of somewhere inside of our component,

we need to recognize or understand

what the current sort order is

so that we can figure out

that when a user clicks on this cell again,

what we should change it to.

In other words,

if we don't know what the current sort order is,

how could we progress to the next step in the cycle?

If you don't know that we're currently in ascending order,

how could you progress to descending?

And if you don't know that we are in descending order,

how could you progress over to unsorted?

So this is immediately pointing to the fact

that we need to have something inside of our component

that keeps track of what the current sort order is.

And that is not really being captured

by having a piece of state called sorted data.

The other thing I wanna point out

is that whenever a user clicks on one of these headers,

we want to modify these little icons.

So these icons are meant to tell the user

what the current sort order is.

If a user clicks on score in particular,

then we should be sorting our table

in ascending order

based upon the score column.

And so I would want to show

only the little up icon on score.

All the other columns

should still have all their different icons.

Only score should have the little up one

because that is a sign that it is specifically score

that we are sorting on right now.

So again, this is kind of implying

that there's something inside of our component,

something somewhere

that says we are currently sorting on this column

as opposed to that column

or any other that is visible on our table.

So I think that for these two reasons,

I think it's kind of clear

that this state design right here is not going to work

because with this state design,

the only thing we have access to is the sorted data

and we can't really figure out

what order this data is sorted in

and we can't really figure out

what column it is sorted by either.

So I think it's kind of clear

that this is not a very good solution

and we need to come up with another solution,

something different.

So we're going to go with option number two.

So in option number two,

we're gonna have two different pieces of state.

One piece of state is gonna be called sort order.

And this is going to keep track

of what the current sort order is of our data.

The possible values of sort order are going to be null,

asc, short for ascending

or desc, short for descending.

These are the possible values right here.

So at any given time, it can only be null

or asc or desc, only one of those three.

Again, null means that we are not doing

any sorting right now whatsoever.

So the sort order piece of state

is what's going to help us keep track

of what the next click is going to do.

It is what's going to help us realize

that we're gonna go from unsorted

to ascending to descending,

and then back to unsorted.

It is also gonna help us keep track of the fact

that we want to show say, just an up arrow

or both up and down arrows or just the down arrow.

The other piece of state we're gonna have is sort by.

Sort by is gonna keep track

of which column we are currently sorting by.

The possible values are going to be null,

which in the case we're doing no sorting,

name or score.

Name and score are the label properties

off these different config objects.

So if sort by is equal to name,

it's a sign that we are currently sorting

by this column right here.

And we want to use this sort value function

for doing our sorting operation.

If sort by is equal to score,

that's a sign that we are currently sorting by

this config object right here.

And we want to use that sort value function

for doing our sorting.

So as you kind of guess,

if we had different labels on here

like my name and ASDF,

then the possible values of sort by

would be my name and ASDF.

Okay, so that's the general idea.

Now, the kind of takeaway from this

is that since we have these two pieces of state,

we're not actually gonna have any state

that keeps track of the sorted data.

And that means that while we are rendering our component,

when we're actually rendering sortable table,

we're going to do our sorting operation

and then pass the sorted data down to table.

Now that might not sound super important,

might not make sense right now, totally fine,

but I just wanna point out that maybe we have

to think about our sorting operation a little bit more.

So this is a solution that's definitely gonna be good

and it's gonna work for right now,

but it's something we're gonna revisit a little bit

and just make sure

that this is a good and correct

and most importantly, performant solution.

So we will revisit this a little bit.

Okay, enough on state design.

We can come back in just a moment

and implement this stuff.
276
Instructor: Let's define

these two different pieces of state

inside of our sortable table component.

We're gonna update them whenever a user clicks

on one of those different th elements.

So I'm back inside of SortableTable.

At the very top I'm going to import useState from react.

I'm then going to define my two pieces of state.

So we're gonna have sortOrder.

I'm gonna give that a default value of null to indicate that

by default our table is unsorted

and then we're going to have sortBy,

that will also start off as null again

to indicate that we are currently not doing any sorting

by default.

Then inside of handleClick

we're going to update these pieces of state.

So inside of here we need to take a look at what

the current sortOrder is.

'Cause the current sortOrder is gonna modify

or change how we update our state.

And it's all gonna go according to this cycle right here.

So if sortOrder is currently null,

that means we are unsorted.

If sortOrder is null,

then we're going to change to ascending.

If sortOrder is ascending, we're gonna go to descending.

And if sortOrder is descending,

we're gonna go back to null.

So let's code that in just to get started.

So couple if statements here,

I'm gonna say if sortOrder is null,

then I want to update sortOrder to be ascending.

Otherwise if sortOrder is ascending,

I'm gonna setSortOrder to descending

and then otherwise if sortOrder is descending

I'm going to revert it back to null.

So that handles that cycle.

The next thing we need to do is update the sortBy

piece of state.

So sortBy is gonna keep track

of what column we are currently sorting by.

It's gonna be the label essentially that's coming

into this argument

or this the argument that's coming into this function.

So if we are changing to a sortOrder of ascending

that means we need to know which column we are sorting by.

So I will do setSortBy and update it to the label.

If we are changing to descending

we also need to know which column we are sorting by.

So I'll do setSortBy with label

and then if we are currently going from

a sortOrder of descending to a sortOrder of null

it doesn't really matter

which column the user just clicked on

'cause we're trying to revert back

to our initial state so to speak.

So in this case

when we are going back to a null sortOrder

we're also gonna change setSortBy to be null as well

to indicate right now no sorting should exist whatsoever

and it doesn't really matter

what column user just clicked on

because we're just planning to go back to no sorting.

So this looks good,

as a little bit of debugging

down at the bottom of sortable table,

very temporarily I'm gonna add in a div to wrap our table.

I'm gonna make sure I clean up up the semicolon

at the end of the table JSX element.

And then right above the table I'm going to print out

sortOrder and then a dash and sortBy.

And we're just gonna make sure

that these things are being updated appropriately.

Okay, I'm gonna save that.

By default we're gonna see just a dash

because the value null,

which is what our state defaults to

does not actually produce anything visible on the screen.

So right now sortOrder and sortBy are both null.

So now we can click on our header cells

and we'll see that we should be sorting

an ascending order based upon name.

If I click on name again,

now I'm descending order based on name

and if I click again,

I'm back to the initial state.

If I click on score,

I'm ascending order based on score,

descending order based on score,

and back to the initial state.

Okay I'd say this looks pretty good

with one very small exception.

And this really comes down to how you personally

as a developer expect a table to work.

Me personally,

I would like to make sure that if I am say

descending on score,

if I click on the score column again

I would want to go to unsorted and that's what we're doing.

But if I click on name is sortable,

if I click on the name column right now

I don't really want to go to being unsorted.

I should go to being ascending order on name.

And that's not what is happening.

We are going back to unsorted.

So in other words,

if I'm somewhere in the middle of this cycle

on one column and I click on a different column entirely,

I want to immediately go to ascending order

based on that other column.

And this is something I mentioned very briefly

when we first started talking about sorting.

So just a very small adjustment.

We're gonna come back

and make this adjustment a little bit later.

All it's gonna take is a very small update to handle click

but I want to finish up

our table first just to make sure it's super clear

the behavior that I'm looking for.

Because otherwise we're just gonna be making a change

and it's not really gonna be obvious why

and I just wanna make sure it's super clear why

we're making that change.

Alright at any rate we're kind of on the right track here.

So now the last real thing we have to do is sort our data

and pass the sorted data down into our table components.
277
Instructor: Whenever sortOrder changes or sortBy changes,

our component is going to re-render

and we need to sort our data and pass that sorted data

into the table component down here.

So lemme give you a couple

of quick reminders before we start this.

So the first quick reminder is

that our table page component is passing

down a prop into sortable table called data.

That is the array of objects that we want to sort.

So we need to take the data array

and sort it based upon the current value

of sortOrder and sortBy.

That's gonna give us a sorted version

of our data, which we're then gonna pass down

into the table component so it gets displayed on the screen.

Now as we go through this process, there's gonna be two

or three things that are just a little bit confusing.

So inside of sortable table I'm gonna go

down towards the bottom,

right above our final return statement right there

and I'm going to write out a couple

of comments just to guide us

and help us just think of and try to understand these very,

very small kind of confusing items.

So the first thing we need to do is we need to

make sure we only sort data

if sortOrder and sortBy are not null.

So if those things are null,

that means that we should not be doing any sorting.

It means we should display our data in an unsorted order.

So we need to take a look at those two pieces

of state and we're only gonna do any sorting

if those things aren't null.

If they are not null, the next thing we need to do

is make a copy of the data prop.

So we didn't really go into great detail on this

but you might have noticed back over here inside

of that little sample file we had put together,

when we were talking about sorting objects,

whenever you call the sort function on an array

in JavaScript, it modifies the array that you call it on.

And that's a huge big deal inside of React.

Remember earlier on inside the course, like many,

many sections ago, there were a couple videos

in a row where we said in great detail,

never directly modify an array if that array is a part

of the prop system or the state system.

So if we call sort on our data prop that is flowing

down into sortable table right here.

If we call sort on that, we are going to be modifying a prop

and that is something we absolutely do not want to do.

So the next little comment I'm gonna put in right here,

well I guess I already did.

We need to make a copy of that data prop.

That's pretty much it.

So we're gonna create a new array

and we're gonna copy all the items

from the data prop array into our brand new array

and then we can safely sort our new array

'cause we're not modifying a prop anymore.

Then after that, the next thing we need to do

is the last confusing thing, I promise.

We need to figure out what our sortValue function is.

So just quick reminder once again.

Okay, here's the sample code we have put together

for sorting arrays of objects.

Here is our comparative function.

So remember that whole discussion

around sorting arrays of objects doesn't really

make sense to compare objects against each other.

We have to pick a property or a combination

of properties to use to sort our objects

and that was the goal of this whole getSortValue function.

So inside the comparative function we had to make use

of getSortValue to pull off one individual property

or combination of properties off these objects

and we used those as our actual sorting criteria.

Inside of our application,

these sortValue functions exist

inside this on this config array.

So in order to find our sortValue function,

the function we're going to use to figure

out how to sort these different objects,

we have to look at the sortBy piece of state.

So that's gonna be either null, 'Name', or 'Score'.

We're gonna go up into our config array right here

and we're gonna find an object that has the same label

as whatever the current sortBy state is.

So if our state of sortBy is name, we need to go

up into this config array and find that object right there

because it also has a label of name.

And then we're gonna use that object's sortValue function

to take all of our different objects we're trying to sort

so all these ones over here

and pull off some single property that we're gonna use

as our sorting criteria.

So we basically just have to do a little binding operation

using this sortBy piece of state.

Okay, and that's it.

I promise that is the last confusing part.

So I'm just gonna put a comment

in here that says, "Find the correct sortValue function

and use it for sorting."

Ooh, okay, I apologize for all that explanation

but I just wanna make sure it was super clear what was going

on because outta this entire process I didn't

want everything to fall apart at the very last second.

Okay, so let's implement this.

The actual implementation is not gonna go quite

in the same order as these comments right here

but we're basically doing the same thing.

So first off, I'm gonna create a new variable

using the let keyword and I'm gonna call it sortedData.

And by default I'm gonna have it be our data prop

and I'm gonna go up towards the top.

I'm gonna make sure I destructure the data prop off

of our props object.

There we go. That's better.

So by default sortedData is gonna be data.

I'll then check and see is sortOrder and sort

by defined are they not null?

So if they are not null, that's what this if statement right

here is doing.

Then that is a sign that yeah, we need to go ahead

and actually do the sorting operation.

So inside the if statement, the first thing I'm going to

do is try to find the correct sortValue function to use.

So for that I'm going to take a look at the config array

that's coming from our props object.

I'm gonna do a find operation on it.

And for every one of those column objects I'm gonna

try to find a column object

with a label equal to our current sortBy piece of state.

So that find operation right there, that is hopefully

gonna find us the correct object out of all these.

I'm going to assign the result

of this to a variable called column.

So column is gonna be the entire column object

and the only property

on that we actually care about is the sortValue property.

So I think I'll just destructure off sortValue.

So that is our function

that we are using for doing the sorting operation.

And then finally, once we find that sortValue function,

now we can actually do the sorts.

So I'm going to update the sortedData variable.

I'm going to have it be, and this is where we're going

to take care of making that copy.

So I'm going to make a copy

of the data prop by writing out a new array with ...data.

So that's gonna make a new array

and copy all the elements from data into it.

So now we can freely modify this array as much

as we want and we are not modifying a prop.

So I'm gonna do my sort operation on this.

And the actual sorting code is gonna be pretty

much identical to what we had written out

as we were talking about sorting objects previously.

So we're gonna receive A and B.

I'm gonna create value A and I'm gonna produce value A

by calling that sortValue function

and putting in argument A.

So remember A right here, that is one of our data objects,

it's one of the fruit objects.

So we're going to pass the fruit object

into sortValue and hopefully get

out just the fruit's name or its score or whatever else.

And we'll do the same thing for the B argument as well.

Then we're going to take account or factor in

whether or not we should reverse the sortOrder

by doing something basically identical

to what we have right there.

So I'm gonna declare a new variable called reverseOrder

and that's going to be the result of sortOrder.

That's our piece of state.

And I'm gonna say, is this thing equal to asc?

If it is, I'm gonna get back 1,

otherwise I'll get negative 1.

Then I'm gonna take a look

at the type of value A, so typeof valueA.

If that is equal to string

then I'm going to assume both these things are strings

and I'm gonna do a string based comparison.

So I will return valueA.localeCompare.

And again, don't forget for the third time, let's locale,

there's an E on there and I'll put

in value B and then multiply the results by reverseOrder.

Otherwise I'm gonna assume this is a number

and I will return, what is it?

Parentheses, valueA minus valueB.

Again, don't forget the parentheses

otherwise the order of operations will not be correct.

I'm gonna multiply that by reverseOrder.

Okay, so now the last step,

sortedData is now the sorted version of our data array.

So last thing we have to do, at long last,

we're gonna take sortedData

and we're gonna pass it off into our table component.

And we're gonna tell the table component

use this as your data.

So we'll say data is sortedData.

So now the table's gonna render itself

using the sorted version of our data array.

Okay, so let's save this.

Here's the moment of truth.

Is it gonna work? I really have no idea.

I don't really know.

Let's just see what happens.

So if I click on score IS SORTABLE;

oh my gosh, it actually worked.

Look at that, ascending based on score.

If I click it again, we get descending based on score.

If I click it again, I am unsorted.

And if I click on name IS SORTABLE,

yes, name sortable descending.

Oh, I can't believe it.

It actually worked. I'm really thrilled.

Honestly I am, believe it or not,

this series of sorting videos

like the last 10 I've recorded four times now.

It's taken many, many days to put together and I

think this version is the one that we're actually gonna use.

'Cause the previous versions of this content I put together,

I think were too confusing.

I don't think this is perfect

but I think this is a better way of presenting stuff

than what I've been doing previously.

So I'm really thrilled here

because we got these sorting stuff done.

So last thing we really need to take care of.

These header cells. Very simple.

They just need to show some arrows.

That's pretty much it.

So if we are sorting based on score in ascending,

I wanna show a little up arrow next to it.

If we are descending based on score,

I wanna show a little down arrow.

If we are not sorted based on that column at all,

we're gonna show both arrows and that's it.

That's the last step.

So that shouldn't be too bad.

I'm sure we could figure that out.

It's just gonna be kind of couple different

if statements and whatnot.

Okay, last part.

Take care of that in just a moment.
278
Instructor: Let's fix up these header cells.

So instead of saying something is sortable,

I wanna show some icons that tell the user

whether or not we are currently sorting

on that given column.

So remember the original goal here,

if our table is in an unsorted state,

we're gonna show both of these little icons

at every single column header cell,

if that column is actually sortable.

And then if user is sorting the table,

based upon the values in that given column,

in ascending order, we're gonna show only the up icon.

And if we're sorting on the values

based inside of this column,

then we're going to use a little descending icon.

Alright, so back over inside of my sortable table file,

I'm gonna find where we build up our custom th element

right here.

We don't need to display IS SORTABLE anymore,

so I'm going to delete that text.

So right here, right before column.label,

right here is where we want to place some icons.

Now the actual logic for this, it's gonna be pretty simple,

deciding which icons to display, it won't be that hard,

but it's just going to involve a couple of different

IF statements

and we're gonna have to write out a decent amount of JSX.

So although we could write all the icon related stuff

for this right here, it would just be a little bit messy.

So to keep this file a little bit clean,

I'm going to create a separate function inside this file,

which I'm going to use to decide

which set of icons I want to display.

So I'm going to assume that I'm going to have a function

called getIcons inside of this file.

So I'm gonna call it and hopefully return some

icons to place right here.

When I call this function to decide what icons

we're going to display for each different th

we are rendering onto the screen,

we need to know three different things.

We need to know which column

we are currently trying to create the icons for,

we need to know whether or not

we are sorting by that column,

and we need to know what the current sort direction is.

So we're gonna pass in arguments to getIcons right here,

of column.label, of sortBy and sortDirection, excuse me,

sortOrder is what we called it.

So then inside of getIcons, we're gonna say,

okay, is this label, is this column that

we're currently trying to create the icons for,

is it equal to sortBy?

SortBy is the label of the column

we're currently trying to sort our data by.

So if those two things right there are not equal,

it means that immediately we know we want to show

both of the little up and down icons,

because we're currently not sorting by this column.

If these things are equal,

then we're gonna take a look at sortOrder

and if sortOrder is null,

that means we're gonna show both icons.

If sortOrder is asc, ascending,

we're gonna show only the up icon,

and if it is descending, we're gonna show the down icon.

So that's pretty much the entire implementation

of getIcons.

So let's write out this function at the bottom of our file.

I'm gonna go down towards the bottom,

I'm gonna find export default down here,

and right above it I'm gonna add in getIcons.

And this is going to receive the label, the sortBy,

and the sortOrder.

So then once again, right away we know that if

the label is not equal to sortBy,

that means we are currently not sorting by this column.

So I'm going to want to show some icons

that include both the up arrow and down arrow.

We'll put in some icons here in just a moment.

But for right now,

I'm just gonna return a string that pretty much says

show both icons.

We will come back in just a moment

and replace this with some actual JSX.

For right now we'll just return a string,

we'll make sure that we always see the correct string

inside of our table over here.

So then if we get past that check,

we're going to assume that

yep, we are currently sorting by this column

that we are trying to get the icons for.

So now we need to take a look at sortOrder.

If sortOrder.

Oops, if sortOrder is null,

then I'm going to return show both icons,

'cause right now we are not doing any sorting whatsoever,

so we're gonna fall into this case right here,

we wanna show both icons.

Otherwise if sortOrder is asc, we are in ascending order,

we're gonna show up icon.

And finally, if sortOrder is descending,

I'll return show down icon.

Okay, that should be it.

So let's save this, flip back over, and see how we're doing.

If I refresh, I correctly initially see

that we're going to show both icons for both these columns.

If I then click on the score over here

on the right hand side

I'm gonna show an up icon only for that,

if I click on it again, I'm gonna show it down icon only,

and if I click on it again, I go back to showing both icons,

so that's perfect, that's exactly what we want.

So now all we really have to do

is make sure that rather than returning

these plain strings, we return the actual icons.
279
Instructor: We need to show some actual icons

as opposed to these simple strings.

So we're gonna once again go over

to the documentation for that React icon's project.

Once here, I'm gonna go to the GitHub Octicons section,

and then I think some very appropriate icons

to use would be GoArrowSmallUp

and GoArrowSmallDown.

So I'm going to import those

into the SortableTable file.

At the very top, I'm gonna add

in an import for GoArrowSmallDown,

and GoArrowSmallUp.

And I'm going to import those from react-icons/go.

Then down at the very bottom of the file, once again,

I'm going to update each

of these different return statements

and return the appropriate set of icons.

So on this first one I'm going to return a div,

and this is going to show first GoArrowSmallUp,

and then GoArrowSmallDown.

I'm going to copy that

at the next return statement right here.

I'm gonna delete the string and replace it

with that same exact div 'cause we wanna show both icons.

On the next return statement,

I'm gonna paste that same div in,

and then delete the GoArrowSmallDown,

'cause we'll only wanna show the up one.

And then as you guess, replace that last one,

and in this case only show GoArrowSmallDown.

Alright, let's save this.

And then once again, if we flip back over,

well, not quite right just yet,

so we're gonna solve this

with a little bit of CSS, but we're definitely close.

So again, if I start to click

on these different headers, yep,

the arrows are definitely updating appropriately.

So we're definitely on the right track.

We just need to make sure

that these things actually show up on the same line.

So to do so, I'm gonna go back up inside of sortable table.

I'm gonna find where we create our TH element.

I'm going to wrap both these things right here

with another div, and I'm going to get that class,

that div, a class name of flex and items-center, like so.

And now I can see, yeah, definitely very good icons

are showing up next to the actual labels.

And so I can click on these things and yeah,

I'd say that looks reasonable.

Now the only other thing I would like to do is make it

a little bit more obvious to our users that they can click

on these things and sort the table.

So to do so, I'm gonna find the TH element right here.

I'm going to give it a class name as well.

And in this case I'm going to give it a class name

of first cursor-pointer,

and then hover:bg-gray-100.

So now if we hover over these header cells,

we're gonna get that nice kind of gray background

and the cursor is gonna turn into a little hand.

Again, just helps indicate to the user

that they can click on this thing and start with the table.

Okay, so this looks pretty good.

I think we're off to a great start here.

I think we've got our sortable table.

There's really just one last big topic I want to discuss

around this thing.
280
Instructor: The last UI related item I want to fix.

You'll notice right now that if we sort

based upon score in ascending order

and then descending order

and then what would happen if we click on name over here?

Well my expectation would be that I should now sort

in ascend order based upon name

but if I click on it, I just go back to unsorted.

This is because of our current

implementation of handleClick.

We are always going through that same cycle

by going from unsorted to ascending

to descending back to unsorted regardless

of whether or not we are clicking

on the same header cell or not.

So again, just a little bit unexpected.

I want to make sure that if I am ever sorting

by one column and I click on a different column header cell

I should immediately sort on that column

in ascending order no matter what.

So in other words, when we click on one column

and then go to another, we always reset

that cycle back to being in ascending order.

So to handle this, all we should have to do

is make a little small update to handleClick.

Inside of handleClick, inside of SortableTable,

we're gonna take a look at whatever a user

just clicked on and we're gonna going to check to see

if it is equal to the current sortBy piece of state.

Remember sortBy is whatever column label

we are currently sorting by.

If those things are not equal to each other,

that means that we are now trying to sort

by some other column and so we're going to want

to try to sort by that new column,

this new label in ascending order.

So here's what we're gonna do.

We're gonna say if sortBy is defined,

so if we are currently sorting by one column

and label is not equal to sortBy,

so if we're now trying to sort by a new column

then we're going to setSortOrder

to ascending and we'll setSortBy to the new label,

the one that the user just clicked on,

and I'm going to return early

so I don't go through any of these other checks down here.

All right, I'm gonna save this,

and now once again, a quick test.

I'm gonna refresh first and then if I go by score

and then click on name, I go to ascending based upon name.

I can then go to descending on name

and then if I click on score,

I should go to ascending on score.

Yep, I definitely do.

All right, so I'd say that is looking pretty good.

Let's also remove this little kind of debug statement

up here at the top.

I don't think we really need that anymore.

So at the bottom of SortableTable

I'm gonna find where we return from our component

right here and I'm gonna delete

that little debug statement right there.

Again, just don't need it.

We now no longer need the wrapping div either

so we can delete that wrapping div as well

and we're left with just our table element.
281
Instructor: Our sortable table page component

is now complete.

There are some extra little topics we're gonna go over

but they are completely optional.

Just some stuff around understanding performance

of our table and stuff like that.

So this is kind of the end of the sortable table

unless you want to watch those extra videos

which are gonna come right after this.

Before we wrap up on this component, however,

there's one last thing I wanna show you.

We do really truly have a very reusable component

at our fingertips now.

So back inside of table page, if we ever wanted to say

add in an additional column or something like that

all we'd have to do is go to our config array right here.

We could then add in a brand new object anywhere

inside of here with some label, like, I dunno, ASDF

or how about let's do something actually realistic.

How about score squared?

So we're gonna print out the score

but we're gonna square the value.

So we would render fruit and then take fruit.score

and we want to multiply it by itself.

So we could either do times fruit.score

or another way to express this

in JavaScript would be to write out star, star times two.

That's how we raise something to a power in JavaScript.

So if we say that, there we go.

There's our new column.

It is not sortable right now

so we didn't put a sort value function inside there

so we can't sort based upon it.

But yeah, it definitely shows up.

If we did want to sort based upon it

we could add in the sort value function

and then our sorting criteria would be fruit.score

times times two as well.

So now we can sort based upon that

and that's as easy as it is to make a change to our table.

Of course if we ever wanted to use different data,

all we would have to do

is update our data array right there.

So we could very easily add in a new object to this thing.

How about a cherry with a color of bg-red-700

and a score of, I dunno, 2.5.

Now if we save this, there we go.

There's our new row inside of our table.

So again, truly reusable table

it's pretty great and we can make changes

to it super easily and it's pretty easy

for other engineers to understand how to use this as well.

In addition to our sortable table, we still

have a plain table component that can show very

simple data that is never going to be sortable

and we can use it exactly with the same exact props

that our sortable table expects to receive.

So for example, if I uncomment table at the top

then down at the bottom of this table page component

right above sortable table, I'm gonna show my plane table.

I'm gonna put in data,

the config array and that key function as well.

So now we can show a plain unsorted table up here

and a sorted version down here.

So we've got two kind of different components with rather

different maybe, maybe not super different functionality.

I guess they're pretty much the same

but it's very clear that we got a fantastic amount

of code reuse out of the playing table component.

We didn't have to create a totally different table

to add in sorting functionality.

I'm going to remove that import

and the table element from the bottom.

So I'm gonna be left with just sortable table.

Okay, so this looks good.

The CSS could be improved a little bit.

It's a little bit cramped right now up in these headers

but I'm kind of okay with it for right now.

If you want to you could definitely add in

some additional CSS.

So we're gonna add in a couple of extra small topics.

Again, these are totally optional,

but I want to touch on some things around the performance

of our table

and some different ways we could improve our code base

specifically sortable table, even more, so totally optional

if you want to watch 'em.

Otherwise, totally, absolutely feel free to skip over



