301
Instructor: We have spent a lot of time on React.

It is now time to move into the world of Redux.

We're gonna first discuss exactly what Redux is.

So Redux is a JavaScript library

and it turns out

that it is remarkably similar

to that use reducer hook

that we just learned about in the last section.

So Redux is a library.

We use it to maintain state

for our entire application

and it uses the same techniques as useReducer.

We still have the dispatch function,

we still have reducers,

we still have actions, all that same stuff.

So in this video, I'm gonna show you a couple of ways

in which Redux and useReducer are very similar

and a couple of ways in which they are slightly different.

First, quick reminder on useReducer.

So we were making use of this hook

to produce some state inside of a component.

Anytime we wanted to change that state,

we sent an action object into the dispatch function.

The action was automatically sent along to a reducer

and that caused us to create some new state.

So it's the exact same thing

in the world of Redux as well.

With Redux, we still have action objects,

we still have dispatch functions,

we still have reducer functions,

and we are still creating some state

that we're going to eventually use

inside of our components.

So again, same exact idea.

Now as I mentioned, there are a couple of ways

in which things are different.

So let me show you exactly how Redux and useReducer differ.

With useReducer, we were trying to create some state

that we were going to use inside of a component

and its children.

So for example, we might make an app component,

produce some state inside there with useReducer

and we can use that state

inside the app component

in all of its children as well.

When we start making use of Redux, however,

we are going to create a separate object

called the Redux Store.

This Redux store lives separately

or kind of apart from our React application.

So you can think of this Redux store

as being completely outside of our hierarchy of components.

Anytime a component needs to get access to state,

it's gonna reach out to the Redux store

and access the state that we have defined inside there.

So we have to form very distinct connections

between our individual components

and this Redux store.

To make this connection a little bit easier,

we're going to be using a library called React Redux.

So it turns out that Redux itself doesn't really assume

that you are making use of React at all.

And if you actually look at the source code for Redux,

you're not gonna really see a lot inside the source code

that says, hey, I'm specifically being made for React

or anything like that.

So in order to form really nice connections between Redux

and our React application,

we're going to use this additional JavaScript library.

And again, it is called React Redux.

This library is 100% optional,

but you are going to see

a vast majority of projects using it.

Just so you know, the React Redux library

pretty much just forms a connection between Redux

and the React side of your application

using the same kind of techniques

we have already learned about, specifically context.

That is how the Redux data is being shared

with the React side of our app.

It is using context under the hood.

So it's not like it's doing

any kind of amazingly original stuff.

It is just automating some techniques

that you and I have already learned about.

Another way in which useReducer

and Redux are slightly different is that with useReducer,

we made one single reducer function

and we used that one function

to manage all of our states.

When we go into the world of Redux,

we're going to often have

multiple different reducer functions

and each different reducer function

is usually going to be in charge

of managing a different part of our state.

So we might have one reducer

that is responsible for dealing with data related to users,

another one responsible

for dealing with data related to videos

and another one for messages.

A typical Redux application will usually have

several different reducer functions inside of it.

If you only have one reducer function,

that's usually a sign

that your application might not be at the size

where you need to have Redux at all.

One other way

in which Redux is a little bit different

is that our state objects are usually gonna end up being

a little bit more complicated,

so they're usually going to have

several different properties inside them.

In this example,

I've got three kind of different subsections

inside the state object.

So the overall state object has some users property,

a videos property, and a messages property.

Each of these different areas

or these sections of the state object,

are going to be created by a different reducer.

So the users right here might be related

or kind of controlled by our users reducer,

videos might be controlled by the second reducer

and messages by the third one down here.

We use this technique

to kinda split up the responsibility

of managing state inside of our application,

so we don't end up with one reducer

that just has a huge amount of code inside of it.

We like to split up our state

between these different reducers

just to make things a little bit easier

to understand and manage.

Okay, so that's a couple of ways

in which useReducer and Redux are similar and dissimilar.

So for right now,

I really just want you to have it in your head

that useReducer and Redux,

yeah, they're kind of similar

and we're going to see

that a lot of techniques are shared between them.
302
Instructor: When I told you a moment ago that

Redux is awfully similar to useReducer,

you might've been a little bit surprised.

If this is your first time looking at Redux,

you might've heard of Redux before and heard,

Hey, it's this great library, it helps us

with React applications and whatnot,

and so it might be a little bit of a surprise

that we're using the same techniques as useReducer.

And the reason I think that might be surprising is that,

well, useReducer, it just wasn't the most

convenient thing in the world.

You know, this dispatch function, these action objects,

it seemed like things were just kind of really complicated

without really having any purpose for being so complicated.

I don't know, that's just kinda what I think.

So in this video, I want to help you understand why

this pattern of action objects, dispatch functions,

reducers, all this stuff, seems to be kind of popular.

Why does useReducer exist, why does Redux exist?

Why do they both use the same kind of technique?

There are many reasons that Redux is very popular,

but in this video, I want to focus on one reason,

in particular, that this pattern really seems

to come up really often in the React world.

And I would say that one very popular reason,

one really big reason we use Redux,

really boils down to the dispatch function.

So anytime we want to change our state in any way,

when we are using Redux or useReducer,

we have to call that dispatch function.

And it turns out that this is a huge strength

of this pattern, but it's also a little bit

of a weakness, as well.

So I want to help you understand why this dispatch

function is so important, and some challenges around it.

Okay, so the first thing I want you to think of is that

you are working on a really, really large React project,

and you've got just tons and tons of React components.

And at a certain point, it's kind of hard

to keep track of all the different components

that exist inside of your application.

So we might not really have a clear mental model

of how all these different components are hooked up.

We might have several hundred different components

inside of a single app, and so at some point in time,

it just plain gets confusing.

All these different components are going to be

responding to user events, so as usual, a user typing,

clicking, doing whatever they do.

And so all these different components, at certain points

in time, might be needing to say,

Hey, some state needs to be updated, a user clicked,

they typed, they did whatever.

And it turns out that, as we start to get a lot

of components, keeping track of all these updates

we need to make, it just gets really, really confusing.

It's really hard for us as engineers to understand

why state is updating, and what component is

initiating that update.

So a huge, big important reason that we make use of Redux

is this central point of changing any state,

the dispatch function.

Anytime we want to change any state inside

of a Redux app, we have to dispatch an action,

just as we saw with useReducer.

This is a really, really good thing,

because it makes it really easy for us, as engineers,

to understand why state is changing.

We can very easily take a look at the dispatch function.

We can try to understand why it is being called.

And that's kind of a sign to us of,

Hey, dispatch is being called,

that's why our state is updating.

And so it makes it a lot easier for us

to just plain understand why state is updating,

and what component is triggering that update.

We're also gonna see really quickly that by having

this one central point of change, it becomes really easy

to add in additional debugging features.

For example, we're going to see that eventually,

it's really easy for us to add in a little bit of code

that does a simple console log of every action object

that ever gets dispatched.

So we can add in a very simple amount, very small amount,

of code that's gonna console.log(), and tell us,

"Hey, an action was just dispatched,

here's what the action is."

And so once again, it becomes really easy for us

to understand why our state is changing,

even if we have a big, messy pile of React components.

So to kind of sum this up, one really good thing

about this pattern, where we have this dispatch function,

is that it's really easy for us to understand

why our state is changing.

That's a really big deal when we are working

on very complicated applications.

So now let me show you kind of a downside

of the dispatch function, something that's not quite

so great when it comes to how we deal with it as engineers.

So I want you to think back to the CounterPage example

that we went through a little bit ago,

when we were first talking about useReducer.

So we did not immediately come up with that idea

of dispatching an action object that had a type.

Remember, we kind of had to figure that out, so to speak,

a couple of videos in, as we were talking about useReducer.

And so there was a point in time at which I had told you

that we call the dispatch function,

and that causes our reducer to run.

And you might recall that there was a video in there

where we realized, okay, anytime we want to change

our state, we call dispatch, that runs the reducer,

but the reducer has to be told why it is being executed.

It has to be told what state update it needs to make.

And that's the point in time at which

we came up with this idea of action objects.

Objects would have a type, and the sole purpose

of that type was to communicate from calling dispatch

inside the event handler over to the reducer,

why we are running the reducer,

and what state update we want it to make.

That was the only purpose of action types,

that's the only reason we did it.

And so I would argue that a little bit of a downside

of this entire idea of adding in action types, and whatnot,

well, we just have to write in a ton of extra code.

We have to define all these action types as constant

variables, we eventually have to import them,

export them around between different files,

if we ever want to reuse them, we have to refer to them

inside of our reducers, and even inside the reducer,

we also have to write out all this extra code

for these switch statements, as well.

So this is ultimately a lot of extra boilerplate.

It's a lot of extra code just to communicate

to the reducer why it is being called.

So that's not the greatest thing in the world,

it's kind of a downside, I would argue.

So the entire point of this video is just to highlight

that, hey, having this central point of change

inside of our application, it's really good,

but on the other hand, well, having to write out

all this boilerplate to deal with the fact that we have

a central point of change is also kind of not great.

So where does that leave us?

Well, that leaves us with one last diagram here,

something that's going to add in just a little bit

of complexity to the situation.

Here we go.

So this is gonna seem very unrelated to what we've been

discussing in this video, until we kind of get to

one very important point here.

Whenever we make use of Redux inside of a React application,

we have two options available to us.

We can either make use of Redux,

the Redux Library by itself.

So that's option number one, and that's how we used to

do things all the time, for every React Redux application

we ever put together.

But more recently, there's been a new library

that's been released, and you are gonna see it very,

very often whenever Redux is being used.

This new library is called Redux Toolkit.

This library is a wrapper around Redux.

So if you are using Redux Toolkit,

you are still using Redux.

The goal of Redux Toolkit is specifically

to simplify that action type creation process.

It is to help us avoid having to write out all those

action types and those really complicated switch statements

inside of our reducers, as well.

Redux Toolkit does several other very convenient things

for us, but ultimately one immediate impact we are going

to see, compared to making use of a useReducer,

is that creating our different action types

and our reducer functions is gonna look a little bit

different, but behind the scenes,

we're still technically making use of Redux.

And so all the same ideas we learned from useReducer

are still going to be applicable here,

just a little bit of the syntax is gonna be

a little bit different, that's all.

Option number two, making use of Redux Toolkit,

is the recommended way of creating Redux projects

in the future, and so you and I, in this course,

are gonna focus on option number two.

We're going to be making use of Redux Toolkit a ton.

And in the coming videos, whenever I refer to Redux,

I'm usually actually referring to Redux Toolkit.

Okay, so long story short, the entire purpose

of this video was really to just highlight that,

hey, this dispatch function, it's great, it's really nice

having the central point of change, but a little issue

with plain Redux is that having to write out

all that boilerplate code just to tell the reducer

what to do, yeah, that wasn't so great.

And so as a solution to that, we very often

make use of this Redux Toolkit library.

One of the things it does for us is just simplify

that action type creation process.

It just means we have to write a little bit less code,

which yeah, ultimately is probably a good thing.
303
nstructor: Let's get started working

on our first Redux project.

For this first project,

I put together a little bit of boilerplate for us.

You can find the boilerplate at this link right here.

I put together a very small number of React components,

so we can focus on just the Redux side of this application

and not have to worry too much around a bunch of React code.

So I would encourage you to open up your browser

and navigate to this address right here.

Once you do so, you should see a page like this.

So on the left hand side, you'll see that a couple of files

and folders have already been created.

And on the right hand side,

you'll see the preview window.

So lemme tell you a little bit about this application

because right now, you can click on these buttons

but nothing happens just yet.

All right, here's the goal.

We're going to make a very simple playlist application.

Whenever a user clicks on Add Movie,

we are going to randomly generate a movie name

and add it into a list.

So you can see in this mockup,

I have already generated two movies.

Whenever a movie is added,

we're going to see a red x button

to the very right hand side here.

If I click on that button, I want to delete that movie.

So I could delete that one, I could delete that one.

And then if I clicked on Add Movie twice,

I would get two movies to appear.

The song feature at the very bottom

is gonna be absolutely identical,

so we're going to have the ability to add in more songs

and delete them as well.

And then finally at the very top,

there's going to be a Reset Both button.

This button whenever clicked is going to delete everything

in both lists.

Now I know this seems like a really simple

and basic application, and it is.

But it's gonna expose us to some super important ideas

in the world of Redux.

So let me tell you

a couple more things here really quickly

around the application as it stands right now.

The app is created with three different components.

There's the App component, a MovieList component,

and a SongList components.

There are a couple of different event handlers

that have already been created in each of them.

So inside the app component,

there's a handle reset event handler

to deal with the user clicking on that reset button.

And then in movie playlist and song playlist,

we've got handle movie ad, handle movie remove,

and both these do exactly what you would expect.

Handle movie ad is called whenever a user clicks

on the add button.

And remove is called whenever a user clicks on the red x

to delete a movie.

Same thing over here with the song component as well.

If we open up those movie and song components

inside the components directory,

you'll see that there is already a bunch of code

inside of here.

So at the very top,

I've got a little bit of stand in code

for giving a list of movies.

And then I've got the two event handlers right here.

All the JSX has already been taken care of.

So we should not really have to do a whole bunch

on the Redux side,

we should be able to focus just on Redux.

Okay, so that's it.

That's what we're going to work on

for our first project with Redux.

So let's get started in just a moment.
304
Instructor: I think we've got a reasonable idea

on what's going on on the React side of this project,

so now let's take a look at the Redux side.

We're gonna take a look at a couple of different diagrams.

So as we go into the world of Redux,

I really want you to keep in mind everything

we learned around useReducer.

The entire state updating flow is gonna be almost identical

to what we went through with useReducer.

So anytime that we want to update our state,

we are going to create an action object,

we're gonna pass it into the dispatch function.

We're going to have more than one

reducer function this time,

and we'll go into a lot of detail

on how that's going to work.

We're going to have two separate reducers in total,

one that's gonna manage a list of movies,

and the other that's gonna manage a list of songs.

Whenever an action gets dispatched,

these reducers are going to run

and produce some new state for us to use.

So let's go through this flow a little bit more closely.

First, I want you to understand the structure of state.

So we are going to have one big state object

for all the state of our entire application.

This object is gonna have a shape like this,

it's gonna be an object with a movie's property

and a song's property.

They're both going to be an array of strings.

Every string is going to represent either a movie

that we want to show on the list,

or a song that we want to show on the list of songs.

Each of these different arrays

is going to be managed by a different reducer

that we create.

So again, we're going to have two separate reducers,

one is gonna manage the list of movies,

the other is going to manage the list of songs.

Whenever we want to change these arrays,

so whenever we want to say add a movie, remove a movie,

add a song, remove a song,

we're going to do the same thing we just discussed.

So we are going to have our component,

we're gonna have an event handler inside there,

they'll be called whenever a user does something

like clicking on a button or whatever else.

Inside of that event handler,

we will dispatch an action object to change our state.

So whenever user clicks on handleSongAdd,

we'll dispatch an action that tries to tell our reducers

that it needs to make a very particular kind of update

to our state.

So that's going to flow into our reducer functions.

They're going to run,

they're going to produce some new state,

that new state is going to be all kind of

joined together into one big state object.

And then this big updated state object

will be made available

to all of our different React components.

So any React component that relies upon our state

will be automatically updated

and we'll see some new content on the screen.

Now last thing I wanna mention

is a little bit of project structure

as we start to add in this new Redux code.

For right now,

we're going to add in a new folder into our project

called Store.

And inside there we're going to create a new file

called index.js.

For right now, we're gonna write out

all of our Redux related code

directly into this index.js file.

Eventually, we're gonna add in some better structure,

but for right now, it's just gonna be a lot easier

if we write out a lot of code directly inside this one file,

rather than trying to tab between several different files.

The last thing I want to mention

is that as soon as we create this file,

we are going to have two different index.js files

inside of our project.

We're going to have the existing index.js file,

which is where our React application starts up.

So we're going to have the second new index.js file,

where we start up all of our Redux related code.

So again, just keep in mind two separate

index.js files moving forward.
305
nstructor: Let's get started on some implementation.

Back inside of our online code editor,

I'm gonna find the SRC directory.

Inside there, I will make a new folder called Store.

And then inside of that new folder,

I will create a new file called Index dot JS.

So once again, we now have two separate Index dot JS files.

Inside of the one that we just created,

we're gonna write out a little bit of code

to work with Redux.

We're not gonna say what it does just yet.

We're just gonna focus on writing all this code out.

And then in the next video we'll come back

and do a deep discussion on what's going on.

So to get started at the very top of this file,

I'm gonna add in an import statement

with a set of curly braces.

And we're gonna add in an import for

configure store and create slice

from at reduxjs slash toolkit.

Notice that this is reduxjs, it is not Reactjs.

After that I'm going to create a new variable

called Songs Slice.

I'm going to assign to that create Slice,

I'm gonna call it,

I'm gonna put in an options object

and then inside of here

we're going to add in three different properties.

The first is going to be name.

And I'll enter in song.

Then initial state,

I'm gonna put in an empty array and then reducers.

I'm gonna put in an object.

And in this object I'm gonna put in two different functions

that are gonna look very much like a reducer function.

So I will add in, Add Song.

This is going to take arguments of state and action.

I'll then add in Remove Song.

And once again, this will take

arguments of state and action.

Inside of Remove Song, right now

I'm gonna put in an empty comment.

Inside of Add Song,

I'm gonna add in a little bit of implementation here.

So I will put in State dot Push, Action dot Payload.

Okay. After we declare Song slice,

I'll then go down to the bottom of the file.

I'm going to create something down here called a store.

I'm going to assign to this configure store.

Once again, I'll pass in an options object.

I'll then put in a key here of Reducer

and really critical,

notice that this is Reducer without an S.

Whereas up here we had Reducers and there was an S.

Inside of this object, I'll then add in songs

and I'll assign to that songs Slice dot Reducer,

and once again, notice that there is no S on here.

Finally at the very bottom,

I'm gonna add in a console log of store.

And save the file.

Now at present, this file is not going to be executed

because we have not imported it

anywhere else inside of our project.

So to change that,

I'm gonna open up my file Explorer once again.

I'm going to go to the original index dot JS file

inside the SRC directory.

So this is where the React application starts up

and at the very top I'm gonna add in an import

for dot slash store.

So that's gonna add in an import for the index dot js file

that we just created.

If I save both these files,

I should then be able to

go to the bottom right-hand corner of my screen,

find console down here,

open it

and I should see a console log appear right here.

This console log that we see

is the console log we just added in

at the bottom of the file we were working on a moment ago.

If you do not see this console log,

if you see an error instead,

I can just about guarantee you,

you have a typo somewhere inside of this index dot JS file.

So I would encourage you to double check your spelling

everywhere inside of here.

Let me show you the full import statement

at the top as well.

Again, I just about guarantee you

something is wrong inside of this file.

Whenever you make use of Code Sandbox,

that's where you're using here,

you're always going to get

the exact same version of dependencies

that I am using inside of

what you see on the screen right now.

So again, if something is not working,

chances are there is a typo.

So once you see that console log,

means everything is good to go.

Alright, so we just added in a lot of code

and a lot of it is a little bit mysterious.

So quick pause here.

We'll come back in just a moment

and try to figure out what is going on.
306
Instructor: We just made use of Redux Toolkit

to create something called a slice

and something called a store.

Let's take a look at a couple diagrams,

and understand what these are all about.

We're gonna first start off with the store.

So the store is an object that's gonna hold

all of our state for our entire application.

Usually an application will only have one single store.

It's extremely rare to have more than one store,

but it happens every now and then,

on extremely, extremely large projects.

Usually when we create a store, we're not going

to have to interact with it very directly.

Usually to access the store, we're going to be making use

of the React Redux library, and that library is going to

deal with the store for us automatically.

But in some cases, we might want to interact

with the store manually just for debugging purposes,

and to better understand what is going on inside of it.

Whenever we want to interact with the store manually,

for debugging purposes and whatnot,

there are two very common things we will do.

We will very often manually dispatch an action,

which you can do by calling store.dispatch(),

and then passing in an action object.

And in some cases, we also might want to see

what state exists inside the store,

by calling store.getState().

Again, writing out code that looks like this,

these two operations right here, pretty rare.

Usually we're going to interact with the store

through the React Redux library.

You're only gonna do these things if we are

specifically trying to debug the store,

and figure out what is going on inside of it.

Nonetheless, let's try writing out code that looks

like this, just so we can see what it's like to fetch

all of our state that exists inside there,

and change the state by calling dispatch.

So back inside my editor, I'm gonna go back down

to the bottom of the file.

I'm going to remove that console.log(),

and I'll create a new variable called startingState,

and then call store.getState().

I'll then console.log out startingState.

If I save this, I'll then see a console log

up here, right here.

So it looks like the starting, or initial, state

for my store is an object that has a songs key,

that is assigned an empty array.

Now you can kind of easily see the initial starting state

right here inside the console, but another way that we

can print this out, just to make it a little bit easier

to read inside this console, is by taking this startingState

variable right here, and turning it into JSON.

So I'm going to wrap this with a JSON.stringify() call.

Now this is absolutely, positively not necessary.

I am only doing this so it's easier for you, in this video,

to see what my startingState is, as plain text.

So if I save this, I can now see my state, and again,

I can just see it a little bit more easily.

Okay, so that's an example of getting

our state out of the store.

Let's now try changing our state.

To change our state, we're gonna do exactly what we did

back in the useReducer world.

So we're going to dispatch an action object,

an action object that has a type,

and optionally a payload, as well.

So after we print out our startingState,

I will call store.dispatch().

I'm gonna put in a very specially crafted action object.

So I'm gonna give it a type of "song/addSong."

Notice that I have a capital S on song

right there, or addSong.

Now if you want to do the same thing as me,

make sure you put in the exact same string

I have right here.

This is a very special string,

you'll see why it's special in a little bit.

I'm also gonna add on a payload of "New Song!!!"

After we call dispatch, our state should be updated.

And so I should be able to then get my state

out of this store, console.log it, and see,

hopefully, some updated state.

So I'm gonna do the same thing I did up here,

I'm gonna pull the state out, and console.log it.

So I'll declare a new variable called finalState.

I'll then do a console.log of JSON.stringify(finalState).

I'll then save this, and now we see the initial

starting state for our store,

and then after I call dispatch, I've got a new string

inside of that previously empty array.

So I think it's pretty clear that this is actually

doing something, it's actually changing the state

within our store.

You might also notice that if you change the type

right here, let's say I add on, like, a couple of dashes

or something like that, and save this again,

I no longer get the updated array.

So it turns out that the type that I have right here

is very special, and clearly this is actually doing

some change of state by dispatching an action

that looks like this.

And again, I'll show you why that is in just a moment.

There's one last thing I want to cover around our store.

You'll notice that, by default, we get a object

that has that songs property that is an empty array.

And then over time, that array seems to be growing,

as we start to dispatch actions,

we are inserting new strings into that array.

So I want to go into just a little bit of detail

on why our state object inside of our store

looks how it does.

In other words, why exactly is it an object

with a songs property that is an array?

Why is it not just a plain array, or something like that?

Why is there the key songs here, and so on?

Where is that key actually coming from?

So here's how our big state object

within the store is actually created.

The actual keys for our state object, so in this little

diagram right here, I've got keys of currentUser,

videos, messages and notifications.

These keys are set when the store is initially created.

Then the values for each of these keys are being produced

by the different reducers that you might have loaded

into your store.

So again, the keys of of your big state object

are defined when the store is created,

the values are defined by the different reducers.

So in general, the keys are always gonna stay the same

on this top-level object.

The values inside are gonna change

over time as your state changes.

This is a little bit different than what we are used to

inside of the useReducer world.

With useReducer, we had one single object,

and we just had a couple of keys and values on there,

and the values were actual, immediately useful properties,

so like a number, a string, and so on.

With the Redux store, our data starts to get a little bit

more nested, so we get the overall big object,

and inside that object, on these little different

values that we have, are the values being produced

by our different reducers.

As a reminder, it's usually nice to have

all of our store, or excuse me, all of our state

inside of one big object.

It's not a hard requirement, it just makes it a little bit

easier for us to console.log all of our state out

at certain points, and it just makes it easier

for us to debug our application

and understand what is going on with it.

So in our case, our state object doesn't quite

look like that, ours is, again,

a little bit more simple and straightforward.

So we've got our state object that looks like this.

It has the songs property, and a value of an empty array.

The empty array right there, and well, the array that

seems to be growing over time,

is being produced by the songs reducer.

Now we don't actually have anything called

a songs reducer yet, we have a songs slice.

We'll go into a little bit more detail

on what the songs reducer is in just a moment,

but essentially that empty array is being produced

by a reducer specifically dedicated

to maintaining that array.

The key right here, the key of songs, is being defined

when we initially create our store.

So to create the store, we called configureStore(),

we gave it that reducer property, and that was an object

that had songs, songSlice.reducer.

So that object right there is what determines what keys,

or what the kind of general shape,

of our state object is going to be.

So because we have songs right there, that means our state

object is going to have a key of songs.

And because we set that equal to songSlice.reducer,

the songs value is going to be produced

by the songs reducer.

Now this is kind of complicated stuff, and maybe

the easiest way to understand it is to just

change a little bit of code,

and see how that changes our console logs.

So let me show you a very quick example.

I'm gonna go up to where I create my store right here,

and instead of writing out songs right there,

I'm just gonna put in some gibberish.

If I save this, I'll then see my console log update.

So now my big state object has a key of blah, blah, blah,

and the value for that is coming from the songs reducer.

So the takeaway here is if we ever want to change

the overall structure of our big state object

that is being maintained inside of a Redux store,

we're going to go to where the store is created,

we're gonna find this reducer property,

and we're going to change that object right there

to have all the different keys that we might want to see

inside of our top-level, or big state, object.

Okay, so that's a little bit on the store.

We have not said anything yet around this slice thing

up here, and what it's doing for us.

So let's dive into the slice in just a moment
307
Instructor: The next thing we're going to take a look at

is the createSlice call at the top of the file.

The first thing I wanna point out around slices,

and this is a really small distinction,

but I just wanna say it.

A slice is going to automatically create

some of the different reducers inside of our store

along with some of the different action types

that we're going to use as well.

So, a slice is not like a brand new part

of the state updating flow.

We're not really going to ever have a diagram where we say,

"Oh yeah, the action is gonna flow into a slice,"

or anything like that.

So, a slice is not a new part of this flow.

A slice is something that's going to create actions for us

and create reducers for us.

So, it's creating the things that are a part of this flow.

Again, really small distinction.

The only reason I mentioned that

is to help you understand

that the entire state updating process,

the entire flow that we learned

in the world of useReducer,

is still the exact same over here in the world of Redux.

And even though there's this new thing called a Slice,

it's not changing the underlying state updating flow

that we have already learned.

Now, around slices,

there are three important things we need to understand.

So, the three things that slices do for us.

First, slices are going to define some initial state.

Second, they're gonna take a bunch of mini-reducer functions

and combine them into a big reducer.

And then third, they're gonna help us create action objects.

For right now, we're just gonna focus on item number 1,

defining some initial state.

And then in the next video or two,

we'll take a look at 2 and 3.

Okay, so, defining initial state.

Whenever we first create our store

by calling configureStore,

we need to put some initial starting state inside there.

To define this initial starting state,

we are going to attach it to our different slices.

So, take a look at our Store Creation.

Here's the line of code out of our editor right now.

We've got songs: songsSlice.reducer.

So, that means, right away, by looking at that line,

we know that our state object

is gonna be an object that has a songs key.

There it is right there.

There's the object, there's the songs key.

And the value is going to be produced by the songs reducer.

To figure out what the default value

for this is going to be,

we're gonna take a look

at the songsSlice object that we created.

And we're gonna look at that thing's initial state property.

So, in our case,

we provided an initialState of an empty array.

So, that means that whenever our store first starts up,

we're gonna end up with a initial state object,

that is, an object with this songs property,

and it's gonna have a value of an empty array.

If we wanted to have some different initial state,

for example, if we wanted to have some initial state

that was an array with some strings inside there,

we would just update initialState right there.

So, now, I could save this,

and I would see, I now start off with two songs,

or two strings really, inside that array.

We don't always have to have a plain array right here.

We could instead have some initial state of a string.

We could also have some initial state that is an object

with some nested properties inside of here.

So, I could have an object with a nested array of songs.

But, in our case, just having a plain, simple array

is really the most appropriate.

We're gonna go into a lot more around state design

on some other applications we work on later on.

Okay, so, that is the initial state around slices.

Now, we're gonna end this video right now,

because items 2 and 3 are a little bit more complicated,

I wanna have a lot of time to talk about them.
308
Instructor: The next item around slices.

Number two, combining mini-reducers into a big reducer.

Now this item right here, the text I put here is

sounds kind of confusing, sounds crazy but

honestly it's not the worst thing in the world.

Let's take a look at a diagram or two

and understand what is happening.

Okay, so quick reminder.

Couple videos ago

when we are talking about this general dispatch pattern

of updating state,

I had a small complaint around it.

I had said that a downside is that we have to add in

all this extra boilerplate code

around creating constant action types.

We have to write out all these switch statements,

all these cases.

And the point of all this stuff

was just so that the reducer function

understood what we wanted to update about our state.

Because remember when we call dispatch,

there's one single dispatch function

and that one single dispatch function runs a reducer.

And so whenever the reducer runs,

it's kind of sitting there saying

well, I know I'm running but why am I running?

So to tell the reducer what we wanted it to do,

we added in this idea of action types.

That was a lot of boilerplate code to write in.

There's a lot of extra stuff.

So one of the big points of these slices that we create

is to save ourselves from having to write out

all that boilerplate,

from having to write out all the different action types,

from having to write out the switch statements

with the cases and so on.

So here's what the slice does.

Whenever we define a slice,

we write out a set of mini-reducer functions

on that reducer's property.

So right here, this is where we created our slice.

There's the reducer's property.

We've got an object with a couple of reducing functions.

You can view each of these functions right here

as being like an individual case statement

inside of a larger switch statement.

That's how we really want to think about these things.

So whenever we create a slice, that object is taken.

That's the reducer's object.

We feed it in to create slice and we get back songsSlice.

songsSlice, that actual variable right there, is an object.

It has a property called reducer.

That reducer property is like a big mega reducer.

It combines together all of the individual reducers

we had written out.

This combined reducer is what actually gets loaded

into the Redux store

and you can actually see all this stuff very, very easily

by taking a look at our code.

So lemme show you.

So back over here,

here's what we listed out all of our different

mini-reducer functions.

And again, we can think of these

as each being like individual cases

inside of a larger switch statement.

Each one is gonna contain a very precise

and particular state update.

When we create the slice, we get back songsSlice

and one of the properties on this object is called reducer.

Notice that this is called reducer.

It is not called reducers.

So reducer right here.

It's not the same thing as this object.

Instead, this is a function

and this function can be viewed as like a big mega reducer.

It wraps up all the individual reducing functions

we wrote out right here.

Now this is to be honest way more detail

than you need to know.

The only reason I'm telling you all this

kind of going into detail on what's going on here

is so you understand what Redux Toolkit in particular

is doing for you.

And so that you understand that Redux Toolkit

is specifically trying to help us

and save us from having to write out all this boilerplate,

from having to write out all the different action types,

switch statement, case and so on.

Now a little bit more information on the system.

Inside of each of these different reducer functions,

we're going to make one very particular state update.

We can change of course multiple properties

but the idea is that we're kind of doing one kind of

major operation in here.

So we can change multiple properties.

It just has to be kind of all under the same umbrella.

We'll see a good example of this in just a little bit

so I'll just kind of stop with that thread right there.

Inside this function,

we are making use automatically of that Immer library.

So we are allowed to mutate state directly

as much as we want.

We also do not have to return any state.

So we have to do inside of each of these functions

is apply our state update.

That's pretty much it.

Now last thing I wanna mention around this system

is how does that mega reducer,

so the one that is created by the slice

and gets fed into the Redux store,

how does it actually know when to run

each of these individual functions?

Well, there's a little pattern that createSlice applies.

So here's what happens.

There's a little template and the template is

that the slice is gonna take the name of the slice,

in this case it's song.

So I'm gonna add in a forward slash

and then the name of the function right here, so addSong.

If you ran that code right there,

you would end up with song/addSong.

If there is ever an action dispatched

with this type right here, then the songsSlice,

the big reducer created by it,

knows that it should run that function.

The same thing is applied to all the other functions

you place inside this reducer's object.

So if we ever have an action with a type of song

plus forward slash plus removeSong,

that would give us song/removeSong.

If we ever see an action with that type right there,

this reducer function is going to be executed

and so that's where a little bit lower on

when we manually call dispatch,

I mentioned that this was a very special

action type right here,

that's why it's special.

This action type right here matches up

with this reducer function

because it's following this pattern.

Now you do not need to memorize this pattern at all.

This pattern and these different action types,

they're going to be handled for you automatically

using something we are about to cover

in just a little bit in step number three around slices.

Again, I'm just telling you this stuff

so you kinda understand what is going on behind the scenes.

Whew! Okay.

Now last thing I wanna mention really quickly

around these little reducer functions

is that the state argument right here,

that state variable,

is only the piece of state that is managed by the slice.

So just a little bit ago, I showed you a couple diagrams.

We spoke about how, let's see right here.

I told you that to determine the shape

of this big state object managed by the store,

the individual keys were determined

when the store was created and the values were updated

or handled by these different reducers.

And so for us right now, our state kinda looks like this.

We've got the key of songs

because there's the key of songs right there

when we create our store.

And then the value for that

is being produced by the songs reducer.

This value right here, whatever is right there,

that is what flows into this function as the state argument.

This is not,

I'm gonna put a comment here just to kind of illustrate,

state is not the big state object in the store.

It is the piece of state managed by this reducer.

Now above everything we're talking about right now,

this is something that you don't have to sweat

too much right now

because we're going to go into this in a lot more detail

'cause it's a super important point

and I'm gonna repeat this over and over

and make sure that's crystal clear.

I just wanna throw this in right now

because it's something that we're gonna come back to

very often.

Okay, so that's it around these reducer functions

for right now.

There's one last thing we're going to talk around slices

and we'll do a quick review

on a lot of these different topics
309
Instructor: Onto the last big thing

that slices do for us.

They create a set of functions

that are called action creators.

Now, item number three right here,

when you first look at this,

it's gonna be a little bit confusing.

At least I think it is,

I think it's a little bit confusing.

And so my advice to you as we talk

about these action creator functions,

don't overthink it.

It is ultimately kind of a...

I don't wanna say it's simple

because that kind of implies that,

"Hey, you should really figure this out instantly."

That's not the case,

all I mean to say is don't overthink this, okay?

As we talk about action creators,

just don't overthink it.

So remember a moment ago,

we spoke about how when we create a slice,

a handful of very special action types

are automatically created for us.

So if we ever dispatch an action

with a type of song/addSong,

that reduced right there is going to run.

And I told you that you do not have

to actually memorize this pattern

because there are some tools that are created

when we make a slice that is gonna handle the creation

of these action types for us automatically.

The tools that are going to help us create

these action types automatically

and keep us from having to memorize this pattern,

they are functions called action creators.

So here's when action creator is.

Whenever you create a slice,

the slice function or the createSlice function

is gonna take a look at the name

of all these different reducers.

So in our case, addSong and removeSong.

In response to each of those,

it's gonna create a new object.

On this object are one function

for each of those different reducers

and they're gonna have the exact same name.

These functions are called action creators.

They are functions that are created for us automatically.

Whenever you create these functions,

they're gonna give you back an action

that you can immediately dispatch.

And the only goal these action creators,

this is the important part,

this is the critical part,

and this is where I'm telling you,

don't overthink this.

The only goal these action creators

is to save us from having to manually write out

these action objects and memorize these different types.

That's it, that's all these action creators are doing.

So let's write out a little bit of code

and see these action creators in action.

That was not a pun by the way.

Okay, down here,

I'm gonna comment all this stuff out for a moment.

And right above, I'm gonna add in: console.log

songsSlice.actions.

So this is also kind of a little point of confusion

that I've found.

The actual functions are called action creators.

That's what they're called,

they are functions that are going to create

and return an action object.

But for some reason,

these functions are being placed

on a property called actions.

In my opinion, that's just not a good idea,

this really should have been called action creators.

But again, it's called actions.

So let's run this,

I'm gonna save a file and just see what happens.

So here's my console log, songsSlice.actions,

this object is created for us automatically.

There's going to be one function on there

for each of the different reducer functions we created.

These functions that we just console logged out

are not the same as these right here,

totally different functions,

they just have the same name.

Whenever you call one of these functions,

for example, if we call songSlice.actions.addSong,

so addSong, I'm gonna save this,

and we're going to get back an action object

that we can immediately dispatch.

So again, the entire point of these things

is to just help you make these action objects

and keep you from having to memorize these types.

That's all they do.

So our kind of key here,

the kind of real takeaway

is that if we ever want to dispatch an action

that runs a particular reducer,

if I ever want to run that reducer,

or if I want to run that reducer,

all we have to do is write out songSlice.actions,

the name of the reducer we want to run,

that's gonna give us an action object

that we can then immediately dispatch.

If we want our action object to have a payload,

we will add it as the first

and only argument to that function.

So for example, whenever we dispatch addSong,

we're kind of supposed to have a payload

that has the name of the song we want to add in.

So if I want to create a songAdd action that has a payload,

I will add it in as the argument right there,

so I'll put in "Some song".

Now if I save this, there's my action object.

I've got the correct type and the correct payload.

So let's see this thing in action.

I'm gonna comment that line out.

I'm going to uncomment all the stuff underneath it.

And now instead of manually creating that action object

which is prone to typos,

because I might forget the exact type to write right there,

easy typo to make.

Instead, I'm going to dispatch songsSlice.actions.addSong,

and I'll put in whatever payload

I want to send along with it.

So how about "Some song",

that's gonna create my action object,

I dispatch it.

The action that is created is gonna have a type

that automatically sends it over

to that reducer right there.

We're going to update our state in this particular way.

We're gonna get some new state,

and then after that, we're going to console log it.

Okay, let's save this.

And there we go,

we get the pretty much same exact thing as before.

So again, action creators.

Don't let these things be more confusing

than they actually are.

They are ultimately straightforward,

they're a little shortcut,

they just create action objects for us automatically,

so we don't have to memorize these types.

If we ever want to pass along a payload,

we're gonna add it as the first

and only argument.

All these different action creators

can be accessed on the slice.actions property,

and the name of these action creators is gonna be exactly

whatever the name of our reducers are.

Okay, so that's it.

So now we've got at least a reasonable idea

of what's going on around slices and our store.

So now we're gonna move on.

We're gonna go into the world of React

and we're gonna understand, 'kay,

now that we understand how to do

some of this simple stuff around Redux,

like say dispatch actions and whatnot,

how do we actually make use of this stuff

in the React world?
310
Instructor: It's time for us to merge together

the React side and the Redux sides of our projects.

So right now there is no connection

between our Redux store and the React app.

And even though we could technically access the store

from inside of a component by importing it directly,

that's not really the recommended way.

So lemme show you what we're going to do.

We're going to use the library React-Redux

which I've mentioned a couple times in passing.

Remember this is a library,

separate library from React separate library from Redux

is a totally different library

called specifically React-Redux.

This library is all about making Redux

and React play together nicely.

The key part of this library

is something called the Provider.

The provider is a component.

It creates the same kind of provider

that we have seen before around the context system.

When we create this provider,

we're gonna pass in our Redux store to it.

Then through the context system,

the store and specifically the dispatch function

and the state within it are going to be made available

to all the different components inside of our application.

So our song playlist, for example,

will then be able to access the list of songs

inside of our store

and we'll also be able to access the dispatch function

inside the store through the context system.

Now we don't actually have to make direct use

of the context system.

Instead we're going to use a couple of different hooks

to access dispatch and our state.

It's gonna actually look really similar

to some of the custom hooks

we put together previously in this course around context

and making accessing context a little bit easier.

Okay, so lemme show you exactly what we're going to do

in a little bit more detail.

So connecting React to Redux

and we only have to do this one time per project.

So very clear and simple steps here, four in total.

First thing we're going to do,

find the file where we created our store

and we're going to export it.

So let's take care of step number one.

Inside my index.js file that we've been working in,

I'm gonna go down to the bottom.

I'm gonna delete all those console logs down there,

and I'm going to add in and export for store like so.

I'm not going to export it as the default.

You absolutely can,

but you're gonna see that eventually

we're gonna add in a couple of other exports from this file.

And so whenever we have multiple different exports,

personally, I like to export them as named exports

which is what we're doing right here.

This just means that whenever we write out an import

we're going to import with curly braces store.

Ultimately, the way you export this stuff

doesn't make a difference.

So you can do it any way you want.

Don't let anyone tell you differently.

Okay, that's step one.

Step number two,

we're gonna open up our root index.js file.

That's the index.js file

where we start up our React application.

So I will go and find src, index.js, okay?

Inside of here, I'm gonna make sure I import

that actual store.

I've already gotten an import for the store file

but I'm not actually importing this store variable.

So I'm going to update this import statement to be import

curly braces store from ./store.

Okay, that's step two.

Step three, we're gonna import the provider component

from the React-Redux library.

So at the very top of the file,

I'm gonna add in an import for provider.

Notice I have curly braces here as well

from the React-Redux library.

And then finally step four,

we're gonna wrap the app component with the provider,

and we're gonna pass the store to the provider as a prop.

So I'm gonna find where we display

our app component down here.

I'm going to wrap it with Provider

and I'm gonna pass the store as a prop called store

to the provider.

So we'll say store is curly braces store.

And that's it.

So now save this, and I don't see any errors

doesn't look like anything is different.

But now in theory,

I can access some information from my store

from within any of my different components.

So that's gonna be the next thing we work on.

We're gonna work on making sure that we can import

or get access to state from inside of SongPlaylist

and make sure that we can also get access

to the dispatch function as well.
311
Instructor: Now that we have connected React to Redux,

we can start to access state inside of our store

and print it out or make use of it

from inside of our components.

And we can also start to change our state

in reaction to users doing stuff inside of our app.

So we're gonna work on making sure

that whenever a user clicks

on add Song to playlist, we actually update our state.

To get started, I'm gonna find the components directory.

Inside there, I will find songPlaylist.

And inside of this component,

I'm gonna find the handleSongAdd event handler.

So you'll notice

that this event handler gets called with a song.

This song has been randomly generated.

It's a simple string.

So somewhere else inside this file,

down later on side some JSX down here,

I created a song for us automatically

and I make sure that I call this function

for us with that randomly generated song.

Just to make sure that it's working correctly,

I'm gonna add in a console.log of song.

If I save this and then click on add song to playlist,

I'll see some console.logs start to appear.

So these are all randomly generated songs.

Okay, so we need to take that song

and somehow add it into our Redux store.

We want to update our state.

So lemme show you how we're going to do that.

So whenever a user clicks on that button,

inside of songPlaylist, handleSongAdd is going to run.

We need to update our state

and to update our state, we're gonna create an action.

We're gonna dispatch it.

That is gonna cause our reducer to run

and we'll get some updated state.

Now, this does not really account for the fact

that we need to get this updated state back

into our component

and use that state to render a list of songs on the screen.

This flow right here, what I'm showing you right now

is just about updating our state.

That's all we're gonna focus on for right now.

So to change our state, we're gonna do this eventually

probably many times through a project.

We got a series of different things we have to do here.

And even though there are six steps,

each of them ultimately,

ends up being pretty straightforward.

So step one, we're gonna go and find our slice

and we're going to add in a reducer to it

that's going to change our state in some desirable

or particular way.

So we've kind of already done this.

If we go back to the store, index.js file

and find songsSlice right here,

here is our reducer function addSong.

So this reducer is going to update our state

in some desirable way.

It's gonna take whatever's provided as action.payload

and it's gonna add it into our state array.

The list of songs essentially.

So that's step one.

Already taken care of.

Whenever we create a reducer, an action creator

is added automatically for us as the output from the slice.

So we're gonna make sure that we export that action creator

from the bottom of this file.

As a reminder on this, because remember, action creators

are just a tricky little thing.

We're gonna go down to the bottom of the file

and down here again, just as a quick reminder,

if we do a console.log of songsSlice.actions.addSong

and I'm gonna call that because it is a function.

If I save this, I should then get my console.log here

in just a moment.

There we go.

So there is an action object.

That's what the action creator does for us.

It just helps us create these action objects.

We are going to export that function right there

so we can eventually use it from inside of our component.

So I'm going to add in and export or addSong.

Excuse me, this should be export const addSong,

songsSlice.actions like so.

So there's my action creator.

I am exporting it from this file

so I can get access to it inside of my component.

Step three, we're gonna find the component

that we want to dispatch from.

Once again, kind of already did this.

So we want to dispatch from songPlaylist.

It is specifically from this event handler right here

that we want to call dispatch

because we want to update our state.

Step four, we're going to import the action creator

and we're also going to import a hook

from the React Redux library.

The hook is called useDispatch.

I'll show you what it does in just a moment.

So at the top of this file, I'm gonna first add in an import

for useDispatch from react-redux.

I'll then add in an import for addSong

from up one directory, store.

Step five, we're going to add in a call

to the useDispatch hook.

That hook is going to make use of the context system

to reach up our component hierarchy and get access

to the dispatch function from the Redux store.

So at the top of our component,

I'm gonna add in const dispatch is useDispatch.

That's it. That's all we have to do.

So it's an extremely simple and straightforward hook.

Dispatch is the same dispatch function that exists inside

of our Redux store.

So if we call that function right there and we pass

in an action object, we're going to be updating our state

in the same way that we updated our state back

with that useReducer stuff.

And now finally, number six,

whenever the user does something.

So in other words, whenever we are running an event handler,

we're going to first call the action creator function.

That's gonna give us an action object.

We're then gonna take that action object and dispatch it.

The action object is gonna be sent off to our reducers.

They're gonna run, they're gonna update our state.

So inside of our event handler,

I'm going to first create my action by calling addSong.

When I call this action creator, I want to pass

along some information with the action that is created.

I wanna pass along a payload

so that the reducer knows exactly what song I want to add

because remember, that is how we wrote our reducer.

Back inside of index.js, here's addSong right here.

We are specifically expecting

that the action is going to have a payload property

and whatever we pass along

as the payload is going to be added into our list of songs.

So back inside of our component

when we call the action creator right here,

we're going to specifically add in song.

And now just to make sure this is super clear, once again,

I'm gonna add in a console.log of action and save this.

If I click on the button, I should see type: song/add

and payload with the title of the song I'm trying to add.

So that is a perfectly good looking

action object right there.

We want to dispatch that thing.

So to dispatch it,

I'm gonna replace the console.log with dispatch action.

And that should be it.

So now if I do a hard refresh, I should be able to click

on add song to playlist and I shouldn't see any errors.

I don't really see anything else.

That is actually totally fine.

Right now we have absolutely nothing

inside of our application that is making use

of our state right now.

So at present, in theory,

we are updating our state correctly.

We're just not making use of that state in any way.

But overall, that's pretty much it.

That's how we update our state.

So just these six steps or so

is how we're going to update our state.

And again, we're probably gonna end up

doing this many, many times per project,

any time we want to update our state.

And just to be clear,

if we want to update state in the same way,

we don't always have to add in additional reducers.

We can always reuse a reducer

we have written out previously.

So if for some reason somewhere else

inside of our application we wanted to add a song,

we would not have to add in a second addSong reducer,

we would just reuse the one we already created.

Okay, so this is looking good.

One very small improvement we can make here.

Usually we're not gonna write out our dispatches

as two separate lines.

Instead, we usually write it out as a single line.

So I'm going to change this to addSong

and put in song like so

and that just looks a little bit more realistic.

Okay, so this looks good.

So now the last thing we really have to do here inside

of our component, we need to get access to our state.

We need to get access to the list of songs that is changing

over time so we can actually render them out on the screen
312
Narrator: The last thing we have to do is get access

to our state from inside of the song playlist component.

We need to get access to that list of songs

that is theoretically changing every time we click

on this button.

Once we get access to that state,

we can then use it to re-render our component

and show the list of songs on the screen.

So let me show you how we're going to access state

from inside of a component.

This is something we're going to do many times per project.

Any time that we need to access some state

from inside of a component.

So four steps in total.

Pretty straightforward.

First, we're gonna find the component that needs to

access some state.

Well, we've already done that.

Inside that file, we're going to import

the useSelector hook

from the React-Redux library.

This hook is what is going to allow us to reach up

to the Redux store and access state from inside of it.

So let's take care of step number two right away.

At the very top, I'm gonna find the existing import

that we have from React-Redux,

and I'll add in useSelector.

Next up, step number three.

Inside of our component, we're gonna call that hook

and when we call it, we're gonna pass in a selector function

and I'll show you what that is in just a moment.

So inside of my component,

I'm gonna find const songPlaylist right here.

Right now by default, that is an empty array.

SongPlaylist is supposed to be a list of songs.

A lot of code inside this component,

for example, later on down here

depends upon that being our array of songs.

So we want to reach into our store,

we want to get the array of songs,

and we want to assign it to that variable.

So I'm going to replace that empty array with useSelector.

Whenever we call useSelector,

we're gonna pass in a selector function.

The selector function is gonna be called

with all of the state out of our entire store.

And then from this function,

we're going to return just the part

of state that our component cares about.

So for you and I, we don't really care

about the entire state object.

We just care about the array of songs inside this component.

So from the selector function

I'm going to return state.songs.

And then if I save that

I should see my list of songs appear.

If you don't, you can always refresh the page

and then try adding on some songs again.

Okay, so it looks like it is working.

But let me give you a little bit more information

and help you understand what is going on here.

First, we have taken care of this to-do,

so I'm going to remove it.

Second, inside of the selector function,

I'm gonna add in a console log

of state.

And as soon as I do so, I'm gonna see

the entire state object that is stored inside

of our Redux store console log down here.

So we can see very easily that our state object is an object

with a song's property that is an array of strings.

Whenever we make use of the useSelector function,

we pass in this selector function,

and once again, the goal

of this thing is to make sure that we are only putting data

into our component that the component actually cares about.

That it actually needs.

So our component doesn't need the entire state object.

It only needs that list of songs.

That's why we are only returning

the list of songs right here.

Okay, I'm gonna remove that console log.

There's one other thing I wanna mention

and this is going to kind of touch back

on something that I mentioned very briefly a little bit ago

and was probably a little bit confusing.

I'm gonna go back into our reducer file or the slice file.

So that's store index.js.

Inside of here,

I want to remind you that inside of this first reducer

we wrote out this comment where I said

"state is not the big state object in the store".

Let's fix that.

It is the piece of state managed by this reducer.

So I want to elaborate on this comment a little bit more.

This is something that I really just

wanna give you a warning.

This is kind of a confusing thing

and it's something that's probably gonna be a issue

or result in a little bit of a bug

on some project that you work on at some point in time.

So we are gonna see the word "state" used inside

of our projects very very often

when we are making use of Redux.

And the confusing thing here

is that in some locations,

"state" means something very different than other locations.

So whenever you are inside of a slice

and you see the word "state",

that means we are referring to the state

that is being controlled

or managed or produced by that slice.

So inside of our reducer functions,

we see the word "state" right there.

"State", that variable is talking about the piece

of state that is managed by this slice,

which for us is just this plain array of strings.

Everywhere else inside of our project.

So everywhere outside of these reducers,

everywhere outside of this slice,

whenever you see the word "state"

it means the whole state object in the store.

So it would basically mean this entire object.

And we can check this very easily.

If we go back over

and find addSong with state right here,

I'm gonna add in a console log.

And if you do a console log of state,

you're gonna see something really, really confusing.

So if I save this and click on the button,

you'll see in this case I actually get an error

when we do it in CodeSandbox.

This is because when we are running a reducer,

we're making use of that Immer library,

and so this is not exactly our state object right here.

But let's try putting in state.length.

That's kind of a good approximation.

So now if I click on the button,

I'm gonna see 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

And so it's clear that in this context,

inside of my reducer,

state is an array.

And that's why I see this length number

increasing over time.

So inside of our slice,

state is just that array.

That's what state is referring to.

I'm gonna clean up that console log,

and then go back over to our useSelector hook over here.

So everywhere else outside of that slice,

whenever you see the word "state",

again, it is referring

to all the states within the entire Redux store.

And we can see that very easily

with these console logs over here.

Okay, so again

this is something that I'm going to give you a couple

of reminders on,

as I mentioned with that original comment,

because it is a confusing thing

and it's something that is probably gonna lead to bugs

even if I mention it a ton of times in this course.

It's something that eventually is probably gonna get you.

So just remember this little

kind of gotcha here around the word "state".
313
Instructor: We have now seen the flow

of changing our state from inside of a component

and how we can access state inside of a component.

We are going to practice these flows

many, many times

because it turns out you're going to be doing these things

a incredible number of times on professional projects.

It turns out that a lot of your time

spent on professional projects,

it's just spent writing out code to access state

inside of a component and change state

from inside of a component.

And so it is extremely important

for us to memorize these flows and be able to write them out

or go through them many, many times probably per day.

So that's what this first project

is all about that we're currently working on.

We're going to add in a little bit more

of the state changing operation.

So whenever a user clicks on these red x's next to a song,

we want to change our state.

We want to delete that song.

To do so, we're going to make sure

that we dispatch an action

from inside of the appropriate event handler.

And the goal of that action

is going to be to update our state

by removing that particular song right there.

So again, this is an example of changing state

and initiating that from inside of a component.

Once we finish this feature,

we're then going to repeat all this stuff a second time.

So we're going to implement the movie playlist

and this is going to have the same

kind of change state behavior,

we're going to have to access state,

and we're gonna have to change state

whenever user clicks on the red x.

So totally identical feature up here.

And again, it's just to practice these flows.

So let's get to it.

Let's make sure that we can remove a song

whenever user clicks on these red x's.

So we need to implement the changing state flow.

To get started, we're gonna add a reducer

into one of our slices

that changes our state in a particular way.

And for us, we want to take some song

that user just clicked on and remove it from our state.

So inside of our store index.js file,

I've got a lot of comments inside of here right now.

I'm gonna clean these comments up

just so you can see what I'm doing on the screen

a little bit more easily.

Inside of our slice,

we have already defined a reducer function to remove a song.

Whenever this thing gets called,

we need to know what song we are supposed to remove.

So we're going to make a big assumption here.

We're going to assume that the action object

on its payload property is gonna be a string

and that's gonna be the title of the song we want to remove.

So if I have a song of Purple Rain right here

and I click on the red x next to it,

we're going to make sure that when we dispatch an action,

we include Purple Rain on the action.payload property.

So as a reminder to myself, I will add in a comment.

I'm gonna say action.payload

is going to be string, the song we want to remove.

So then inside of here,

our state is going to be the array of songs.

So we need to go through that array.

We need to find the appropriate song and remove it.

Now to remove an element out of an array

when we are using immer,

because remember Redux toolkit automatically includes immer

inside of all your reducer functions for you.

So we are directly allowed to

or absolutely allowed to mutate the state object.

And so to remove an element with immer,

easiest way to do it

is by using the built-in splice function.

The splice function allows us to take out or delete elements

from an array very easily.

So let me show you how we're going to do this.

I'm gonna first get the index of the song

inside of the existing state array.

So I'll say state.indexOf action.payload.

Once I've got the index of the string

or really the song out of that array,

I'm then going to call state.splice index.

And I only want to remove one element,

so I'll put in one right there.

And that's pretty much it.

So this code right here,

it's going to remove the particular song

out of our state array.

All right, so that's step one.

Next, step two, we're gonna go down to the bottom

of this file and we're going to export the action creator

that the slice automatically creates for us.

So remember whenever we create a slice,

every reducer that we add into this function right here,

we'll get an action creator made along with it.

And we use these action creators

just to automate the process

of making those action functions.

So I'm going to go to the bottom of the file,

I'm gonna find where we are already exporting

the addSong action creator

and I'm going to also export removeSong.

Next up, step number three.

We're gonna find the component we want to dispatch from.

Well, that's gonna be the song list component.

So we'll skip over number three.

Number four, we need to import

the action creator function and useDispatch.

We have already imported useDispatch into that component

so we don't have to worry about that,

but we do have to import our action creator.

So let's go back over to SongPlaylist.

At the top up here,

it looks like I accidentally added it in already.

So we're gonna find the import for addSong.

We're going to also import removeSong, like so.

So that's our action creator function.

Again, a function that's going to create

an action object for us.

Moving on step number five,

we have already called useDispatch inside of our component.

We do not have to do that again.

We've already got access to the dispatch function.

So step number six, we're gonna find our event handler.

We're whenever the user does something,

we're gonna call our action creator to get the action

and then we're going to dispatch it.

So down inside of handleSongRemove,

this event handler is going to be called

with the song that the user wants to delete.

So inside of here, we will call dispatch

and we're going to pass in removeSong.

Remember, this is our action creator.

For the third time in this video,

this is a function

that's gonna create an action object for us.

And when we make that action,

we want it to have a payload

of the song we are trying to delete

because our reducer assumes

it is going to receive that payload.

So I'm gonna make sure I pass in song like so.

And that should be it.

So let's save this.

And now if I go over here, I'm gonna do a refresh

just to make sure I'm totally starting fresh.

I'll then add in some songs

and I should be able to click on these red x's

and see them deleted.

And yep, looks perfect.

So I can add any number of songs and delete them

one at a time.

All right, fantastic.

So that is it.

We've got some more practice with changing our state.

As I mentioned, we're going to now pretty much repeat

all this stuff up inside of movie playlist.

So inside a movie playlist,

we're going to have to one time

for this button right here, change our state.

We're going to have to put in

some more changing state behavior.

And then to show the list of movies,

we're going to have to access some state.

So let's get some more practice

around these very basic flows in the next couple of videos.
314
Speaker: Time to work on the movie playlist component.

So I've mentioned this thing a couple times.

It's gonna be absolutely identical to song playlist.

The only difference is it's gonna show a list of movies.

So we're going to essentially have a total copy, almost,

of all the code we already have added into our project.

We need to add in a second slice

to manage the list of movies.

That new slice we create is gonna have a reducer

to add a movie and remove a movie.

After creating the slice,

we need to make sure we also connect the slice

to our Redux store.

So again, pretty much completely identical

to what we have already gone through.

Let's get started right away by creating our new slice.

And right now, once again, we're gonna make it inside

of the index dot JS file, but we will very shortly

refactor all this stuff out into separate files

just to clean things up a little bit.

So at the top of my store, index dot JS file,

I'm going to define movies slice.

I'm going to give this a name of movie.

Remember the name right here is really just used

for action types.

So we could call this movie, we could call it movies,

my movies, really doesn't make a difference.

It can be anything we want.

It just needs to be unique.

So it can't really be used

by any other slice that we create.

I'll then give this an initial state of an empty array.

I'll then add in my set of reducers,

and in this case, I want to have a reducer called add movie,

and one called remove movie.

Right now I'm going to leave these reducers empty,

and we'll come back and add in some implementation

in just a little bit.

Once we have created slice,

we then need to connect the combined reducer

that is created by it to our Redux store.

So we'll go down to the bottom here,

I'll find where we create our slice, and I'm going to add

in to the reducer object, movies, is going to be

movies slice dot reducer.

Now really quick, right after we create our store,

let's do a console log of store dot get state,

and we'll see what our initial state is

when the store is first created.

If I save this file, I'll get the console log,

and if I can,

this is like a one pixel little drag e-bar

thing right here, so hard to click on.

There we go.

No, there we go.

Okay, got it.

Alright, so there's the console log of our state.

So now you'll notice that we have two pieces

of state in this big overall state object.

We've got the list of songs, and the list of movies.

So now as we start to work with our state,

just keep in mind, yeah,

there's gonna be a movies property in there as well.

I'm going to remove that console log.

Alright, let's get started on some implementation.

So the first thing we need to do is make sure

that whenever a user clicks on a button to add a movie,

we add a movie into our list of movies.

So once again, we need to change some state.

Step number one, we need to add a reducer

into our slice that's gonna change our state.

So I'm gonna go up to our movies slice right here.

This is the reducer we want to implement.

It's gonna be absolutely identical

to what we did down inside of songs slice.

So whenever this thing is called,

we're going to make a big assumption.

We're going to assume that the action dot payload property

has a string,

and that's gonna be the movie we want to add into

our list of movies.

So we're going to add some implementation

of state dot push, action dot payload.

Okay, that's simple enough.

Next up, number two,

we're gonna make sure that we export that action creator.

So down at the bottom of the file,

next to all of our other action exports,

I'm going to also add in another set of exports

for add movie.

And that's going to come from movies, slice dot actions.

Next step, we're gonna find the component

we want to dispatch from.

So of course that is gonna be our movie playlist component.

Let's open that up right away.

Inside of SRC components movie playlist.

Here we go.

This is where we want to dispatch from.

So inside of this file,

we're going to import the action creator function,

and use dispatch from react-redux.

So at the top of the file,

let's import first use dispatch from react-redux.

I'll then import add movie from up one directory store.

Okay, next step we're going to call the use dispatch hook

inside of our component to get access

to that dispatch function.

So at the top of our component right here,

I'll get my dispatch function by calling use dispatch.

And remember, all this use dispatch thing does

is use the contact system to reach up to the provider

at the very top of our component hierarchy,

and get access to the dispatch function

from the redux store.

And then finally, step number six,

whenever the user does something,

so in other words, inside of an event handler,

we're gonna call our action creator to get the action

and then we're going to dispatch it.

So I will find handle movie add right here.

This gets called whenever a user clicks

on the add movie to playlist button,

and it's going to be called

with the movie that we want to add.

So that's gonna be a plain string.

So inside of here, I'm gonna first create my action

by calling create, or excuse me, it's add movie,

and I'll pass in the movie that should be used

as the payload.

Just to make sure that is working,

Let's do a quick console log of action.

And now if I click on the button, yep, there we go.

There's my action object, definitely has a payload.

I'm going to remove the console log,

and instead I'm gonna make sure that I dispatch the action.

So now we should be able to click

on add movie to playlist.

And again, we don't see anything actually happen

on the screen just yet.

That is because we are not actually making use

of the movie state inside of this component yet.

But in theory, our state is being updated.

So now that we've added in this flow,

we need to do the other flow.

We need to get access to our state

from inside of our component.

Before we do that,

I'm going to make a very small change here.

I'm gonna do the same change we had before.

Usually we do not write out two separate lines

of code like this to dispatch an action.

Usually we just put it all on one line, like so.

And that's it.

Alright, quick pause right here.

We'll come back in just a moment,

and we're gonna go through our other flow.

The flow where we access state inside of a component.

315

316

317

318

319

320

321

322

323

324
