221
Instructor: We are all done with our drop-down component,

so we're now gonna move on

and start working on our next feature inside of our app.

I'm really excited about this next feature

because it's gonna allow us to build

some more complicated applications in the future.

Here's the original mockups for our app.

Remember we eventually want to have

a list of different links on the left-hand side.

These links are going to allow a user to navigate around

and see some of the different components we have made.

So we should have a link to see the Dropdown component,

one to see Accordion, one to see Button,

and then perhaps some more in the future

to show some other components we might eventually build.

So we're gonna start to focus

on this navigation aspect in this video.

Handling navigation in React is a little bit challenging

and for this first look at navigation,

we're gonna do it entirely from scratch.

Normally on a professional project

you will use a library to handle navigation for you,

at least to some extent.

But we're gonna build it up from scratch

just so you really understand

how navigation works with React.

We will eventually take a look at some different libraries

that are available to us

to make the entire navigation process a little bit easier.

But again, for this first app,

we're gonna do the navigation by hand.

Okay, so to understand navigation,

we're gonna first take a look

at how the browser by itself

normally navigates between different HTML documents.

So we're gonna first understand

how the browser works with plain navigation.

We're going to assume that we're working

with some plain HTML application.

No React, no JavaScript whatsoever.

So here's what normally happens inside your browser.

Whenever you type in an address to the address bar

or click on a link,

press the back button, and so on.

Whenever you enter in an address to your address bar

and hit the enter key,

by default, your browser is gonna make a Get request

to whatever address you typed into the address bar.

So this is a request

that's gonna be sent off to some server.

Now many servers implement something called a router.

A router is a little snippet of code

that takes a look at incoming requests.

It's gonna take a look at the method of the request

and the address that request was addressed to.

And then depending upon those,

it's going to decide on what content

to send back to the user.

So in this case, we're going to assume

that we have a server that has a router

that has two routing rules inside of it.

The first rule says

if anyone makes a Get request to myapp.com,

we're gonna send back the landingpage.html file.

And if a user makes a request to myapp.com/dashboard,

we'll send back the dashboard.html file.

So in this case,

with the request that looks like this,

we would send back landing page.html

and that's what would eventually show up on the screen

and be displayed to the user.

So again, totally normal navigation.

Now eventually a user might be presented

with a link of some kind,

so an anchor tag that has an href attribute.

If a user clicked on that link,

the browser would automatically make another request

of something like myapp.com/dashboard.

In this case, the server would respond

with this totally different HTML file

and send it back over.

So we get this dashboard.html file.

And when the browser loads up this new HTML file,

something very, very important happens.

Something super important happens

and it's super important for us to understand it.

So here's what happens when the browser

loads up this new HTML document.

The standard browser behavior

is to say whenever it gets a new HTML document,

all of the existing JavaScript variables,

all the existing code,

everything related to JavaScript

is completely dumped from the current page.

So this is standard browser behavior.

It always occurs, no way of preventing it,

and I can show this to you

very easily inside of our React app.

So here's a very quick demonstration.

Back inside of my current application,

I can go to the app.js file.

At the bottom of app.js right above my dropdown,

I'm gonna put in an anchor element that says Dashboard

and I'll give it an href of dashboard, there we go.

Now if I save this,

I will see Dashboard

appear on the top left-hand side.

It doesn't really look like a link,

but it is, so if we click on it,

we would go to localhost3000/dashboard.

But don't click on it just yet.

First, I'm gonna open up my console.

I'm going to declare a new variable inside of here,

so let's say const color is red.

So now I can easily access that variable color, right?

Totally makes sense, I can access it,

print out the value,

I see red once again.

So now if I click on this link right here,

my browser is gonna make another request

to the React development server.

The React development server is programmed to always respond

with the index.html file no matter what.

So when we get that HTML file,

the browser is going

to completely reset our JavaScript environment.

We're gonna be back to square zero.

We're gonna lose all of our code,

all of our different variables.

So watch this, I'll click on the link.

I'm now at the new address.

I just got the new HTML file

and now if I try to print out the variable color,

it just doesn't exist, it's not defined

because my entire JavaScript environment

got completely reset.

Now is that a big deal?

Well, kind of.

For a traditional HTML-focused app,

it's not the biggest difference in the world.

Doesn't have a huge impact,

but it is kind of bad for a React application.

In the coming diagrams, I'm gonna show you why this is.

So first, we're gonna consider

a traditional HTML-focused app

and as we do this,

we're going to imagine that we are trying to build

an application that shows a list of blog posts to the user

or a list of images to the user.

So let's imagine how we might build this

if we were just writing out plain HTML documents

without any JavaScript whatsoever.

So on our server,

we might have two different HTML documents.

One might be called post.html.

The other might be called images.html.

Both these HTML files would have everything,

absolutely everything required to show

either a list of posts to the user

or a list of images.

So they would have a bunch of LI elements

probably to show the list of posts.

This one would have a bunch of image elements

already inside of it to show the list of images.

Neither of these HTML files

would require any follow up requests, any code,

anything like that to start showing content to the user.

And the net result

is that if a user navigates to our application,

they would make one single request,

get back an HTML file,

and instantly see content on the screen.

If a user then navigated to the other document,

so let's say a user is at post.html right now

and then click on a link to go to images,

the browser would make one request,

get back images.html,

and again, the user would instantly see some content.

And so the key point here,

what I'm really trying to get at,

is that with this traditional HTML style approach,

it only took one request

to instantly show some content to the user.

And that's kind of good

because it means with a very small delay,

the user will see some content.

So now let's consider the same application using React

and we're going to imagine

that we're going to build this app

with React using the same navigation principles.

So nothing fancy around navigation yet.

We're gonna use the same principles.

So here's what would happen

if we were building this with React.

When a user first typed in our address to the address bar,

they would make a request to our server

and they would get back the index.html file.

That HTML file has a script tag inside of it

that says the browser needs to load up the bundle.js file.

So a second request would be made

and we would get the bundle.js file.

Then the React app would start up

and chances are we would have a component

that would reach out to the server

and maybe try to fetch a list of images

from some API endpoint

or something like that.

So we would make a third request to get the list of images

and now finally, we can see a list of images on the screen.

So it took three requests in this case to see some content.

If a user then clicked on a link to see the list of posts,

we would have to repeat this entire process,

so we would be throwing away all this stuff.

We have to make another request to get index.html,

another for the JavaScript file,

and then a third request again to get the list of posts

and finally, a user can see some content.

So the net takeaway here

is that if we were following

the same navigation principles with React,

it took way more requests,

it took three requests

to show some basic content to the user.

Whereas with a traditional HTML style app,

it only took one request.

Your request is always good.

Almost always good, it's almost always good I should say.

In general, we always want to make as few requests as we can

because fewer requests usually means

a user is gonna see content more quickly

and so a user is gonna think our application

is really fast and really snappy.

So I think at this point it's kind of clear

that we don't really want to build a React app

that would follow the traditional navigation principles

and we need to come up with some alternative approach,

and that of course, is exactly what we're gonna do.

So let's take a pause here.

We'll come back in the next video

and we're gonna take a look at how we're gonna handle

navigation in a ReactJS world.
222
Instructor: Alright, let's take a look

at how we're going to implement navigation

in the world of React.

Now we're going to divide this out

into two separate scenarios.

We're gonna consider what happens when a user

initially visits our application.

So when they type in our address to the address bar

or when they are at a totally different website

and they click on a link that comes to our website

we're also gonna consider what happens when a user

is at our webpage already and they click on a link,

they click on the back button, they press a forward button,

or we attempt to forcibly navigate the user around.

So we're gonna consider these two separate scenarios.

The first one, handling a user initially coming

to our application is pretty easy and straightforward.

So here's what's gonna happen.

Whenever a user initially comes to our app

they're going to make an initial request to our server.

We're going to send back the index.html file,

regardless of what address they are trying to attempt

to address to access.

So whether a user goes to my app.com or my app.com/posts

or images or something else, no matter what,

we are always gonna send back the index.html file.

The html file is gonna have a script tag inside of it

that tells the browser to make a second request

and get the bundle.js file.

Once the browser gets that file

our React application is gonna be executed

and it's gonna start up.

And here's what happens during that startup process.

So during the initial load,

our React app is going to start up,

and it's going to as fast as possible,

look at the address bar and it's gonna look

at the current address that the user is at.

The React app is then going to look

at the route portion of that address only.

So in this case it is /images.

Then the React application is going to apply a series

of different routing rules.

A routing rule says that if a user is at some route

we're gonna show some component

and if they're at a different route

we're gonna show a different component.

So in this case

the user is trying to access /images,

and because the user is trying to go to /images,

we are going to display

perhaps a component called image list.

If a user was trying to access /posts

we would instead display slash, or excuse me

the post list component.

So that's all that happens during the initial load.

So now we're gonna take a look

at what happens whenever a user is already

at our application and they click on a link,

click on a back button, or whatever else.

So we're going to imagine a user is already

at our application and then they see a link

like this on the screen.

So some kind of anchor tag

that says I want to go to /images.

So we're going to imagine a user clicks on that thing.

Our React application is then going to immediately jump

into action.

So we're gonna put a click event handler

on all of our different anchor elements.

So we can detect whenever a user clicks on a link.

Whenever a user clicks on the link

we're going to intercept that navigation event

and we are going to prevent the browser

from doing its typical navigation process.

So we're gonna stop the typical navigation process entirely.

We are not going to allow a user to make a follow-up request

to something like /images

and try to load up a different HTML document.

Not gonna happen, period.

Instead, we're going to handle navigation ourselves

using our own JavaScript code inside of our React app.

So as a part of this navigation event

we're gonna take a look at where the user

was trying to go to.

Because a user clicked on this link right here,

we will know a user was trying to go to /images.

So as a part of that process, we're gonna first

update the address bar so that a user thinks

that they are actually navigating around,

even though they aren't really truly

doing any navigation at all.

So we will manually update the address bar

and have it say /images.

Then we're going to apply our routing rules once again.

So if a user is at /images,

we're going to display the image list component

on the screen.

So we're going to remove the existing component

and replace it with image list.

And that's it.

That's pretty much the entire process.

That's how we're gonna handle

navigation inside of a React app.

All the different navigation libraries

you're gonna take a look at over time,

not only in this course,

but on future projects you work on

essentially work in the same exact way.

So we handle the initial arrival to our app

using this style,

and then whenever a user tries to navigate around,

in any fashion,

we're gonna have these exact same steps right here.

Now I wanna make sure it's really clear

why this is a good approach.

So let's consider something

that we can now do inside of our application.

Whenever a user now navigates around

we are not resetting our entire JavaScript environment.

So think about what impact that's really gonna have

on our app.

Let's imagine that inside

of our component or our application,

we've got that post list component

and the image list component.

And presumably these things need to make some requests

to get some list of posts from an outside API,

or a list of images.

So whenever a user first comes to /posts

we're gonna show the post list component on the screen

and presumably we might have a post piece of state

that would start off as an empty array.

When we first display the post list component

we might make a request to go and get a list of post objects

and we would put them all into this array right here.

Let's then imagine the user tries to navigate to /images.

When a user navigates to that other address

we are not going to reset our entire JavaScript environment.

Instead we're just gonna swap out

the component being displayed on the screen

so that the user thinks they are navigating.

When we go to image list

we'll probably make another request

to an outside API and get a list of image objects.

And now here's the interesting part.

Let's now imagine a user clicks on the back button.

They try to go back to the post list component.

So they're gonna go back to /posts.

We are going to display the post list component.

And now here's the super interesting part.

We can absolutely try to fetch our list

of posts from the API again,

but because our JavaScript environment

was never reset with navigation

we still have the previous list of post,

from when we originally displayed the post list component.

So whenever a user goes back

to a component they already saw previously

we can now show some content

or show some data that we already fetched

from an outside API,

which means we can make far less requests

to an outside API to show some data to the user,

and we can show this content instantly

on the screen without having to make another request.

So this is a huge benefit to the style of navigation.

One thing I wanna mention about this right away

this is only gonna work correctly

if our state is not defined inside of our components,

because when we stop showing post list

and we instead show image list,

by default whenever we remove a component from the screen

all of its state gets dumped.

If we were to store the state inside of a parent component

or a context object instead it would be persisted.

That's just a really small note

not something to get too concerned about just yet.

I'm gonna show you a lot of examples of this of course.

Alright, so that's it.

We've now got a good idea of how navigation is gonna work.

So all we have to do is actually code all this up

but I got good news for you.

We pretty much already know all the techniques

we need to implement this stuff.

So we know about stuff like

click event handlers, and use Effect, and context.

We know everything.

We don't have to learn a lot more

about React to implement this navigation stuff.

So it actually should be pretty quick to put together.

Okay, so let's get started

on this navigation in just a moment.
223
Instructor: Let's get started on our implementation.

Now looking back to our mockups,

it's very clear that we show a sidebar of sorts over here

on the left hand side at all times,

and this sidebar is going to allow a user

to navigate around to some different pages.

So whenever a user clicks on these different links,

we're gonna show a dropdown, show the accordion,

or show the list of buttons,

and only one of those different components

should be visible at a time.

So either dropdown or accordion or buttons.

So to set up something like this,

here's what we're going to do.

We're gonna have our app component

display a new component that we're going to make

called sidebar.

This doesn't exist yet.

It's gonna be the navigation bar on the left hand side,

and it's gonna show some links to the user

to navigate around.

Then the app component is also going to display

one of, ButtonPage or AccordionPage or DropdownPage,

depending upon the current address.

We have already created the ButtonPage component

and the AccordionPage.

We still need to make DropdownPage.

So we need to take everything required

to show a dropdown component

and wrap it up into a new DropdownPage component.

Let's get started there,

I think that's a good place to get started.

So back inside my editor,

I'm going to find the SRC pages directory.

I'll make a new file called DropdownPage.js.

So our goal inside of here is to do exactly what we did

inside of AccordionPage and ButtonPage.

We want to make a single page component

that's going to demonstrate

and show how to use our dropdown.

To do so, we can really just take all the code

we currently have inside of app.js

and copy paste it over,

exactly as we did to make those other page components.

So I'm gonna go back to app.js,

I'm gonna copy everything inside there,

I will go over to DropdownPage, and paste it all in.

Then inside of DropdownPage,

I'm going to rename this component to be DropdownPage.

I'm going to fix up the import statement at the top.

So it should be import from up one directory,

components/dropdown.

I'm gonna go down to the bottom,

I don't want the anchor tag in there,

I put it in in the last video or two videos ago

just as a quick demonstration,

and I really only want to show one single dropdown

at a time.

And then finally,

I'm going to update the export at the bottom

to DropdownPage.

Okay, looks good, now let's continue on in just a moment.
224
Instructor: We just extracted a dropdown page component,

so now we can start to clean up the App.js file.

To get started, I'm gonna delete

all the import statements at the top of App.js,

and then I'm going to delete everything

inside of app component as well.

And for right now, I'm only going to return an empty div.

We're gonna come back to this component in just a moment

and add in a lot of markup to it,

but for right now, I wanna go back to our steps,

these things back over here that we took a look at,

and we're going to investigate each of these steps

one by one and make sure that we understand

ow to implement each of these steps.

And then once we do a little bit of backstory

and delving into each one,

we'll be able to go back to our project

and implement the entire navigation system.

Okay, so here we go.

Here's what we have to figure out.

First, how do we make sure

that we always send back the index.html file

whenever user types our address into the address bar?

Well, it turns out that Create React App

already does this by default,

and you can test this out very, very easily.

Inside of your browser console,

go to the network request tab,

and then click on the filter right here that says DOC,

short for doc or document.

We'll see that, if you refresh the page,

you make one single request, and if you click on that,

you can then go to response,

and you'll see the HTML that gets sent back.

The HTML that you see right here is the exact same HTML

from the file inside of our public directory.

So here's public, index.html.

Everything inside of here is pretty much exactly

what you see right here.

There are a couple of extra tags that are added in

by Create React App automatically,

but essentially, it's the same HTML file.

So now, if we go to, say, localhost:3000 slash anything

and press enter, here's the new request.

If I click on that again and click on response,

again, I get the same HTML file.

So it's clear that Create React App

is already handling that first step for us.

We are always sending back the exact same index.html file.

So now let's move on to the next challenge.

When the application loads up,

we need to look at the address bar

and use it to decide what content to show.

So for right now, I really just wanna focus on,

how do we look at the address bar,

and exactly what part of the address bar do we care about?

Let me clarify what I mean

by the second part of that question.

So eventually, a user is going to go to an address

like, say, localhost:3000/accordion,

and we'll need to show the accordion component

on the screen, but out of this entire address bar

or this entire URL right here,

what part of it do we actually care about?

Well, right now, a user is only putting in localhost:3000

because that is where our application is hosted,

but at some point in time, we're going to deploy our app,

and a user might access our application

by going to myapp.com or reactapp.edu or something.gov.

So the domain name and the port

are going to change rather often,

depending upon where our application is being hosted,

and we probably do not want to have

a separate set of routing rules

based upon that domain name and the port.

So rather than worrying about

whatever the domain name and the port are at all,

we're only going to consider the path

that the user is visiting

for deciding what content to show to the user.

So we don't care about the entire first part of the URL,

we only care about the path.

So the path is gonna be everything

after the domain name and the port.

As a very quick exercise,

let's take a look at some different URLs

and make sure we understand what part of these is the path.

So if we have myapp.com/dropdown,

the path is slash dropdown.

reactapp.org/accordion, it'd be accordion.

This would be images/preview,

and then a little bit of a trick question down here.

If we have just a domain name and a port,

so something like localhost:3000 or myapp.com,

if we have just the domain name,

then the path would be forward slash.

And if we actually do have a forward slash there,

it would still just be forward slash.

So if we have a path of forward slash,

that's kind of a sign that we want to show

some kind of landing page or something like that to a user.

Okay, so now we understand that the path

is really the part of the URL that we care about.

Now the question becomes,

how do we actually get to the path?

How do we take a look at the address bar

and figure out what the path is?

Well, it turns out this is really easy.

Once again, back inside my browser, I'm at localhost:3000.

On the console, I'm gonna type out window.location.

This is an object that is managed automatically

by your browser.

If you expand this location object,

you'll notice that it has a path name property,

so that is the part of the URL that you and I care about.

It is everything after the domain name and the port.

If I'm at localhost:3000, path name is forward slash.

If I go to localhost:3000/dropdown

and print out window location again,

path name will be slash dropdown,

and that's exactly what we want.

So anywhere inside of our code,

we can figure out what the current path name is

by looking at window.location.pathname.

And note here, very importantly, name has a lowercase N.

So it's not really following typical naming conventions

for variables, path, lowercase N name.

All right, so that kind of handles

these first big two questions we have,

so now we're gonna tackle some of these other big questions

in just a moment
225
Instructor: For our next challenge,

we're gonna go down to the very bottom right here.

So at some point in time,

we need to update the address bar to trick the user

and think that they actually swap pages

whenever they click on a link,

press the back button or whatever else.

So we have to figure out

how we actually update the address bar.

And there's two ways we can do this inside the browser.

The first way is by updating the window.location property.

So if you set window.location to some string

like what you see right there,

it's gonna automatically

cause your browser to navigate to that address.

The problem is that this causes a full page refresh.

It causes the browser to make a full request

to that URL right there,

try to find some HTML page and load it up.

And that's exactly what we don't want.

So I can show that to you really easily.

Once again, back inside of our console,

we'll do a window.location

and then http://localhost:3000/

how about accordion?

And when I do that, I'll see that the URL did update,

but I also lost everything inside my console

and that's because it caused a full page refresh.

Again, not what we want.

It turns out that there is another way to change the address

in the address bar inside your browser.

And this is by using a function

once again, built into the browser called pushState.

This function is designed to do exactly what we need.

So this will update the address bar,

but it does not cause a full refresh of the page.

When we call Push State, we're gonna put

in a first argument of an empty object

a second argument of an empty string,

and then a third argument

of the new path that we want to visit.

And we only have to put the path in.

We don't have to do the full domain name

HTTP or anything like that.

So once again, it's quick demonstration.

I'm going to go to local host 3000,

and then inside my console

I will call window, history, pushState

I'll put in an empty object, empty string

and then here is my path name.

I'll go to /accordion.

When I run this, you'll notice that the address bar

does in fact get updated,

but I did not do a full page refresh.

The other really nice thing about pushState

is it automatically makes the back button work

as you would expect.

So if I now click on the back button,

I will go back to local Host 3000,

but I did not do a full page refresh.

So pushState does exactly what we need it to do.

We can call pushState,

put in dropdown or whatever else URL updates.

We don't do refresh

and if we click on the back button we go back,

but we do not do a full page refresh.

Alright, so this one was pretty easy.

We're gonna update that address bar

by using the pushState function.

So just two more tasks here,

two more things to figure out

and then we can start doing the full implementation

of our navigation step.
226
Presenter: Onto our next little challenge.

So we need to handle the case in which

a user clicks on a link,

or presses the back or forward buttons.

And whenever that occurs,

we need to stop the browser's

default page switching behavior,

and we need to figure out where a browser was trying to go.

So we're really talking about two different things here.

We are talking about first,

a user clicking on a link,

and then second, we're talking

about clicking on a back button.

So for right now,

we're just gonna focus on how we can make sure

that user clicking on a link,

does not cause our browser to do a full page reload.

So this is going to be pretty simple and straightforward.

Here's what we're going to do.

We are going to make a React component called link.

And this link component is going to be used anytime

we want to show an anchor element to the user,

that is going to navigate the user around inside of our app.

So if we want to display a link to the user

that's gonna take a user to a different page in our app,

we're going to use this component right here exclusively.

We're only going to use a normal anchor element

to show a link if we're taking a user

to some address outside of our page.

So if we're navigating a user back to say google.com

or Gmail or eBay or Airbnb,

we'll use a normal anchor element.

Otherwise, if we're doing navigation around our application,

we will use this component.

Our link component is gonna take one prop called to.

That's gonna be the address

that a user is trying to navigate to

inside of our application.

Then inside of our link component,

we're gonna show an anchor element

with a very special on click event handler.

So whenever a user clicks on this anchor element,

we're going to run the handle click function.

The handle click function

will of course receive the event object.

And then inside there the most critical line

we're gonna stop the standard navigation

of the browser by calling event dot prevent default.

If you call event dot prevent default,

on an event object that comes

from a user clicking on an anchor element,

that's gonna stop the navigation entirely.

And the browser will not do a total page refresh.

And that's pretty much it.

So that's how we're gonna handle a user clicking on

a link somewhere inside of our application,

assuming the link is trying to navigate the user

to some other page inside of our app.

We're gonna show this custom link component,

instead of making a usual typical anchor element.

All right, so now one more pause.

We'll come back in just a moment,

and start to understand how we're gonna handle

the user clicking on the back or the forward buttons.

And that's gonna be just a little bit more complex.
227
Instructor: Onto part two.

How are we going to make sure

that a user clicking on a back or forward button

does not trigger a total reload of our page?

So we're gonna handle this by using a little trick.

Whenever a user clicks the forward or back buttons

inside their browser, the window object is going to

emit a very special event called a popstate event.

But only if the user's current URL

or the URL that they are currently visiting

was added by the pushState method.

As usual that's really complicated.

So let me give you a very quick demonstration.

Okay, here's the demonstration.

Inside my browser, I'm going to open up a new tab.

I'm then going to type in the address, localhost:3000.

And of course I see our application appear on the screen.

Well, not really anything right now

but certainly I'm loading up the app.

I'm then going to go up to the address bar again

and type in a brand new address.

So I'm gonna put in localhost:3000/accordion.

Now I can use the back and forward buttons

to go between these two different addresses.

So I can go back and I can go forward, back and forward.

And every time I go back and forward

I'm doing a total page refresh.

So total refresh, total refresh, and so on.

Alright, so we can kind of imagine that the history

inside of our browser, inside this tab,

is kept track of using something called a stack.

So I opened up a new browser tab

and I typed in localhost:3000.

I then opened or I then typed in

a new address of localhost:3000/accordion.

When I'm at the page localhost:3000/accordion,

I can't go any further.

There's nothing higher up on the stack

but I can go back in the stack.

I can go backwards by pressing the back button.

Because I typed in these two addresses manually,

anytime I go between them

the page is gonna do a full page refresh.

So now I'm going to do a little bit more navigation

but this time I'm gonna change the URL

by using that pushstate method we just learned about.

So here we go.

I'm going to go to a new address by using

window.history pushstate,

I'll put in empty object, empty string and then a1

or /a1, in this case.

I'm gonna run that. I will see the address bar update.

I'm then going to run the same thing again

but this time I'm gonna put in /B2.

So now notice something really interesting

when I start clicking on the back button.

If I go back to a1, I do not get a page refresh.

If I go back again to /accordion

I do not get a page refresh.

It's only when I go to localhost:3000

that I finally get a page refresh.

So what's going on here exactly?

Okay, here we go.

So we've got localhost:3000, we type that in.

We've got /accordion, we type that in.

I then went to a1 and b2.

which I navigated to using pushState.

Anytime I click on the back button

while I am at a address that was added with pushState

there is no full page refresh.

So I went, when I went from b2 back to a1

I did not get a refresh because I was looking

at a page that was loaded up using pushState.

When I went from a1 to accordion, I did not get a refresh

because I was looking to add an address that was added

with push date.

It is only when I started going to URLs

where I typed in the URL,

so when it went from accordion to 3000,

that I saw the full page refreshed.

So to answer the original question back here

when a user clicks on the back or forward buttons

we do not have to stop

the browser's default page switching behavior

because it's already not going to occur.

We are not gonna get a full page refresh

because we are navigating the user around

by using the push state method.

So that's really, really nice for us, right?

That's really fantastic.

So there's only one other thing to take care of

or to think about here.

How do we actually figure out where a user is going

when they're clicking on that forward or back button?

How do we actually detect that event?

Well, that's what I was talking about

on this diagram right here, the popstate event.

So we just discussed the fact

that when we are going forward and back

between addresses that we have added using pushState

there is no page refresh and that's good, that's fantastic.

But now we need to detect the fact

that a user is going back and forward and to detect that

we're gonna watch for the pop state event.

So let me show you how we're going to do that.

Once again, back inside my browser

I'm going to go forward to b2.

So I'm at /b2 right now.

And then I'm going to type in an event handler

into my console manually.

So I'm going to do a window, addEventListener.

I'm going to watch for a popstate event

and anytime that occurs I will do a console log

of I'm at, and then I will print out

window location path name.

And then before you run the snippet

double check your closing parentheses here.

So I've got one set of parentheses for console log

and a second set of parentheses

for the overall addEventListener.

Okay, I'm gonna run that.

And now when I go back to a1, I will see a console log

of I'm at a1.

I can go forward to b2 and I see I'm at b2.

And finally I can go all the way back to /accordion

and I see I'm at /accordion.

So that's how we're going to detect a user clicking

the back button or the forward button.

We'll add in event listener onto the window object

and watch for the popstate event.

And then once again, just to reiterate,

when a user is clicking on the forward and back buttons,

we don't actually have to stop the page switching behavior

as long as we did the original navigation

using the push date function.

Okay, so now last step here.

Last thing we have to figure out.

How are we gonna update content on the screen

whenever a user does some navigation?

Last part,

and that one is where we're going to kind of springboard

into actually finally writing out some code.
228
Instructor: Alright, my friends.

Let's get started on this navigation context.

We have not worked with context in a while

so I want to just give you a very fast reminder

on how context works from our books project.

So I opened up my code editor inside of our books project

and I've got the books context file open.

You do not have to open this file open

or open this file up at all,

I just wanna give you a very fast reminder.

So inside of a context file,

we'll first create a context object

using the create context function.

We will then make a provider component.

The provider component

will have some amount of state inside of it,

along with perhaps some functions to change that state.

Then at the bottom of the provider

we will return the context provider

that is the provider component that is created

by our context automatically.

And then we're gonna specify

exactly what data we want to share

with the rest of our application

by passing something in to the value prop right there.

After creating the context and the provider

we're going to export them.

We're going to use the provider

inside of our index.js file.

So we're gonna wrap our app component with a provider

and then we're going to use the context object

to actually get access to the information

inside of context inside of our different components.

For you and I back on the Books project,

we had created a custom hook

just to automate that process ever so slightly.

And we'll probably do the same thing

on this navigation project as well.

Okay, now that we have the reminder

let's get started on implementation.

So back inside of our current project

I'm going to make a new folder

inside of our SRC directory called Context.

And inside there I'll make a new file called Navigation.js.

At the very top of that file

I'm going to import create context from React.

I will then make my navigation context

and export it at the bottom.

I'm then going to make my provider

and we're not gonna call it provider this time

we're gonna give it a slightly more clear name.

We're gonna call it navigation provider instead.

No big difference.

We're just calling it navigation provider

just for kind of clarity's sake.

This is supposed to be a React component.

I declared it using an arrow function.

That was just a habit of mine.

To stay consistent with all of our other components,

I will declare it with the function keyword.

So now inside of this we'll return

navigation context.provider.

It's going to show some children.

Children is going to be received from our props object.

And then finally, we're going to have a value prop.

So whatever we put inside those curly braces

is the value we're sharing with the rest of our application.

For right now, I'm just gonna share an empty object

and eventually we'll come back

and add some useful data inside there.

I'll then make sure I export this thing at the very bottom.

So export, navigation provider.

And then finally, to make use of this

we'll make use of it inside of our index.js file.

Inside of Index.js, I will import navigation provider

from ./context navigation.

And then just as before

I'm going to wrap the app component with it.

There we go.

Okay, so all we've really done right now

we really haven't done that much related to navigation.

We have simply created a context

that currently does not share anything whatsoever.

So now we're gonna take a pause, we're gonna come back

and we're gonna start to implement

this current path piece of state,

and we're gonna make sure we update its value

at certain points in time.
229
Instructor: Let's start on the implementation

of the navigation provider.

So, here's our navigation provider right here.

Inside of here, we're going to have a piece

of state called currentPath.

So I'm going to declare that piece of state right away.

I will make sure that I import useState

from react at the top.

There we go.

Now this is going to have a default value,

and I wanna make sure it's really clear what

that default value is going to be.

So back on our diagram back over here,

remember, when our application first starts up

from a user typing our address into the address bar,

we need to immediately look at the address bar,

and decide what content to show.

So in other words, we need this currentPath piece

of state to have a default value when it is first declared,

when our application first starts up.

And its default value that we pass

into useState right here needs to be

whatever the current path is.

Whatever path the user navigated to.

So the current path that is currently displayed

inside the address bar is going

to be window.location.pathname.

Now let's test that out right away just

to make sure immediately this currentPath piece

of state behaves as we expect.

Right above children, I'm gonna print out currentPath.

I'll then go back over to the browser,

and it's kind of small up here on the top left hand side.

But if I type in localhost 3000,

I should see my current path of forward slash.

If I then type in slash dropdown,

I should see slash dropdown.

If I type in slash accordion, yep.

So that means that when our application first starts up,

our currentPath piece of state

is being initialized correctly.

We immediately know what address,

or what path the user is visiting.

Alright, next thing we're going to take care of.

And this is probably the hardest part.

It's only hard because remembering, oh yeah,

we have to take care of that, is the hard part.

That's it.

The actual code for this is gonna be straightforward.

It's gonna use techniques we've already learned about.

The only part about this that's hard is just remembering,

oh yes, that is something we have to do.

So remember, whenever we navigate the user around using

that push state function, if a user clicks on the forward

or back buttons, that triggers a pop state event.

So we need to listen for that pop state event.

We need to say, whenever a user clicks on those forward

or back buttons, and they navigate around our application,

we need to update our currentPath piece of state.

Again, the only reason we are really updating that piece

of state, is to cause our component to re-render.

That's it.

So here's how we're gonna do this.

At the very top, from react, we're going

to import useEffect.

I will then call useEffect inside of our provider.

I only want to call the arrow function exactly one time.

So I'll put in a second argument of an empty array

Inside of here, we're gonna set up an event handler,

and we're going to watch for the pop state event

on the window object.

We're gonna do this in the exact same way that we set

up our dropdown component a little bit ago.

So I'm going to declare a handler function.

I will then call window.addEventListener.

We're gonna watch for the pop state event,

and anytime that happens, we're going

to call the handler function.

And then whenever our navigation provider component is

about to be removed from the screen,

I want to clean up this event listener.

Now, it's rather unlikely that our component is going

to be removed from the screen,

because it's pretty much right now always gonna be visible.

Nonetheless, we always plan for the future.

So anytime we add an event listener to the window object,

we always make sure we add up a cleanup function,

and return it from our useEffect.

So if our component is about to be removed,

that means the cleanup function

that we return from useEffect will be called,

and inside there I will do a window.removeEventListener.

We're gonna remove the pop state handler we had just set up.

Okay, here's the last part.

Whenever the user navigates around by using those back

and forward buttons, the handler is going to be called.

So inside there, we're gonna take a look

at what address the user just navigated to,

and we're going to use that to update our current path piece

of state.

So we will call setCurrentPath,

and put in window.location.pathname.

And that's it.

Okay, so again, everything inside of here is all

about handling the user clicking forward

and back when the user is navigating

between different addresses that they got to

by using that push state function.

So it's not gonna handle the case

in which the user does a hard refresh.

If they go back from a URL that they typed

to another URL that was typed.

It's only gonna handle when the user is going back

and forth between different addresses user went to,

using push state.

So now we can test this out pretty easily.

Inside my browser, I'm gonna do a full refresh.

I will then do a window history push state,

and I'll once again go to A one.

So empty object, empty string slash A one,

and then empty object, string slash A two.

And now if I go back, I should see that address,

or see the piece of state right there start to update.

And in fact, I definitely do.

So I can see, I can go all the way back to slash accordion,

and I'm not getting a full page refresh,

I'm just seeing my application re-render.

Now I just want to repeat one more time.

We don't really have to look up or have this piece of state,

just for the purposes of figuring out

what the current path is.

The only reason we have the state is to cause a re-render

whenever a user clicks the forward and back buttons.

That's it.

That's all.

Okay, so this is looking good.

We're definitely on the right path right now, not a pun.

So let's continue on in just a moment.
230
The buttons are currently totally unstyled

but they are buttons.

So if I click on go to accordion,

I should see the address bar update

and I should see /accordion on the screen.

And if I click on go to dropdown

I should see the address bar update

and I should see a dropdown on the screen.

And if I click on the back button,

here's the critical part

I should not see a total page refresh

and I don't.

So I can go between these different links.

The address bar is updating,

but I'm not doing a total page refresh.

Okay, I'm gonna remove those two buttons and the div.

I'm going to remove currentPath.

And then finally, I'm going to share the navigate function

and the currentPath piece of state

with all the other components inside my application.

And of course I can do that

by adding them into this object right here

that we're passing into the value prop.

So I'm going to share currentPath and navigate

and that's it.

So we have now taken care of our entire navigation provider

and the navigation context.

So now the last things we have to do is,

put together our link component,

which is really gonna look pretty much

just like this right here.

And we also have to add in one more component

just to make it a little bit easier

to say what component we want to show at any given time,

depending upon the currentPath.

Both these last two steps

are gonna get really fast and easy.

So let's get started on them
231
Instructor: Let's get started on this link component.

Now, once again, I wanna be really clear here.

The goal of the link component

is to override normal navigation.

So we're gonna use this link component

anytime a user is trying to go to a path

inside of our application.

If a user is trying to navigate to another domain,

or to be more precise, if we wanna show a link

that will take a user to another domain,

we will continue using a normal anchor element.

So in general, I would expect the vast majority

of links inside of our application

to now use this link component

instead of a normal anchor element.

All right, so let's get started on the implementation.

To get started, inside of my editor,

I'm going to create a new file

inside the components directory called Link.js.

I will make my link component,

and I'm going to assume

that this will receive two different props.

The first is going to be to,

and the second will be children.

To is gonna be the path that we're gonna navigate to

whenever a user clicks on this thing.

Children is gonna be some text

that we want to show inside of the anchor element.

I'm then going to show a normal anchor element,

and in between the anchor tags, I'll put in children.

I'll then add in an on click prop to this thing.

Whenever a user clicks on it, I'm going to run handle click,

and then I will, of course, define handle click right away.

Now, remember, the entire goal of the link function

is to make sure that clicking on an anchor element

does not trigger a total page refresh,

and we are going to stop that normal behavior

by calling event.preventDefault

inside of the click event handler.

That's what stops the total page refresh.

So at handle click right here,

I will receive the event object,

and then inside of handle click,

I will call event.preventDefault.

So instead of doing the normal navigation,

I want to programmatically navigate

to some other route, some other path.

And you might recall that, just a moment ago,

we created a function to allow us developers

to programmatically navigate around the application.

It was the navigate function

inside of our navigation provider.

So we need to reach into context,

and we need to get access to this navigate function.

Then, whenever a user clicks on our link,

we're going to stop the normal navigation

and we will programmatically navigate

to wherever we had wanted a user to go to.

So to reach into context, remember how we do that.

We do not have a custom hook for it just yet.

We might make one in a little bit.

To navigate or to reach into context,

we need to import useContext from React,

and then our context object,

which will come from NavigationContext

from up one directory, context, navigation.

Then inside the component, we will call use context

and pass in navigation context.

That's gonna give us back the entire object

that we are sharing, and right now,

we only care about getting access to the navigate function.

So then inside of handle click, we can call navigate

and pass in the to prop.

And that should be it.

So I'm gonna save this.

We are getting a warning from the anchor element right now.

We will fix that in just a little bit.

If you don't see the warning at all,

that is totally fine, don't sweat it.

Then, to test this out, I'll go back to App.js.

Inside of App.js, I'm going to import the link component

from components/link,

and then I'm going to show two different links

on the screen.

For the first one, I will give it some children,

or some text, essentially, that will be displayed

inside the anchor element of "Go to accordion",

and whenever a user clicks on this link,

I'm gonna take a user to slash accordion.

And then I'll do something very similar.

I'll duplicate it down here.

I'll change the second one to a to dropdown,

and I'll give it some text of "Go to dropdown".

Okay, let's save this.

Now, the initial demo here

is gonna be a little bit underwhelming.

If you mouse over these things,

we get a kind of text pointer right now,

so it doesn't even appear that these things

are anchor elements right now.

Don't worry, we'll fix up the styling.

For right now, if we click on these two different links,

we should at least see the address bar update.

So if I click on go to accordion,

I do, in fact, see the update,

and if I click on go to dropdown,

I do, in fact, see the update.

So that's great.

It means we have some working links.

This is definitely very good.

So now the last big thing that we have to take care of,

we have to make sure that we can show different content

on the screen depending upon the path

that the user is visiting.

Fortunately, that is probably the easiest task

out of all this,

so it will only take a moment to put together.
232
Instructor: The last big thing we have to take care

of is deciding what content to actually show on the screen.

So we have to somehow take

into account the current path and use that to decide well,

should we show the dropdown page,

the accordion page, the button page, or what?

So to implement this,

we're gonna follow a pattern that is very often used

in the community.

Lemme show you a diagram to help you understand

how this is going to work.

Okay, little bit of a crazy diagram.

We're still looking to add our component hierarchy

but I've made a couple of changes.

We're gonna add in a new component called a route component.

The app component is gonna show a couple

of different route components.

Each route component is going

to be given a different set of props.

Let's just zoom in on the one

on the right hand side over here really quickly.

So this route component is going to be given a path prop

and a children prop.

Path is going to be some path where in this case,

it's slash dropdown.

And this means if a user is

at the slash dropdown path right now,

so if they are at local host 3000 slash dropdown,

then we want to show whatever's provided

as the children prop.

So in this case, I've provided the dropdown page component

as the children prop.

So if the current route, or I should say if current path,

current path being this value from our context up here,

if that is equal to this path prop,

then I want to display whatever is provided as children

which in this case is the dropdown page.

And that's pretty much it.

So the route component is gonna end up

being extremely simple in nature.

All it has to do is receive these props.

It has to figure out

what the current path the user is looking

at by looking at the navigation context object.

So it's gonna reach up to navigation context,

it's gonna look at current path,

it's gonna compare it to this path prop.

If they are equal show children, otherwise show nothing.

Alright, let's give this a shot on implementation.

So to get started, I'm gonna go back over

to my editor and inside of my components directory,

I'll make a new file called Route.js.

Right away, I know that this component is going to need

to take a look at a value in context

and that means I probably need to import use context

from React and my navigation context

from up one directory context navigation.

I will then define my route component and export it.

Then this is going to receive props

of path and children.

Inside the component,

we need to reach into context and take a look

at that current path piece of state that we are sharing.

So I'm going to destructure current path

from use context, navigation context.

I'm then going to check to see if current path is equal

to this path prop, if they are equal,

so if path is equal to current path,

then I want to show whatever was provided

to me as the children prop, so I will return children.

Otherwise, if they are not equal,

I don't want to render anything at all

and I can kind of indicate that to React by returning null.

And that's it.

So let's go back over to our app.js file.

And we're gonna test out this component really quickly.

So inside of app.js,

I will import the route component from components route.

I'm also going to import our accordion page

and our dropdown page.

So I will import accordion page from dot slash pages.

Remember that's where that component is.

Accordion page

and dropdown page from pages dropdown page.

Then right after my two link elements, I'm gonna place a div

and I'm gonna set up a series of routing rules.

I'm gonna say if a user is at slash dropdown,

I want to show the dropdown page.

And if a user is at slash accordion,

I want to show accordion page.

So I'm going to add in here first a route component

with a path of slash accordion.

So if a user is at slash accordion,

I of course want to display the accordion page component.

And then my second routing rule will be slash dropdown.

If a user is at a path of slash dropdown,

I want to show my dropdown page component.

Alright, I'm gonna save this, back over to the browser.

Right away I can see the accordion component

because I'm currently at slash accordion

and if I click on go to dropdown, my path updates,

and I see the dropdown component up here on the screen.

And that's pretty much it.

So now we've got some actual, real navigation.

I can click to these different links.

I'm not getting a instant or a full page refresh.

Instead I'm getting instant navigation.

I can of course still refresh the page,

everything still works.

I can click between these two links

and I can still use the back

and forward buttons to get instant navigation as well.

So I'd say this looks pretty good.

Pretty much have fully featured navigation.

We are missing a couple features

and I want to implement just a few of them.

Just a couple of nice to have things such

as making the links look a little bit nicer and so on.

So let's take care of a couple

of extra nice things to have in the next few videos in
233
Instructor: There are a couple of very small things

I would like to improve inside of our navigation system.

So the first thing is inside of the link.js file.

Lemme give you a quick demonstration

of something that I think we could improve.

If I open up a new browser tab and go to any page online

besides our application, I'm gonna find a link on some page.

Here's one at google.com right here.

I've got a link on the top left corner.

If I hold down the command key on my keyboard

or control if you're on Windows,

and then click on the link,

the link is opened in a brand new separate tab.

So holding down command and click in on that thing

should open up the page in a new tab.

Right now our application does not have that behavior

so if I hold down command and click on my link right here,

nothing at all opens up.

So let's take a look at how we can fix that.

To fix it up, we're gonna go back to our link component.

I'm gonna find our anchor element

and I'm gonna give it an H ref property.

Our H ref prop is gonna be two

'cause that's where this link is ultimately trying to go to.

Then inside of our handle click function

we only want to prevent the default behavior

if the user does not have that command

or control key held down.

So we need to detect that somehow.

To detect it, right now I'll do a console log

of the event object.

Then back inside the browser I'll do a command

or control if you're on Windows,

click on one of those links.

When I click on it, I can expand the console log.

And if you scroll down you might notice

that there is a control key property right here.

And if you go even a little bit further

you might also notice that there is

a meta key property right here.

In my case, meta key is set to true

and if you are on Windows

you probably see a control key of true.

So on Mac OS, meta key will be set to true

if the command key is held down

and on Windows control key will be set to true

if you hold down the control key.

So we could do a little check inside

of our handle click function.

We can say if the user is holding down meta key

or control key,

then we don't want to go through this behavior.

Instead we want to allow the browser

to handle the navigation event as usual

and attempt to open up a new tab.

So we can write out something like this.

We can say if event.metaKey or event.ctrlKey

then just go ahead and return

and we'll let the browser just do its thing.

So if I save this now and refresh,

I should be able to hold down command or control on Windows

and click on the link

and see my link up here inside of a new browser tab.

Same thing with dropdown.

It opens up a new browser tab at the dropdown address.

Okay, good little improvement.
234
Instructor: The next thing we're going to improve upon

is some styling around our link component.

So anytime we show some text that's supposed to be a link,

it should really just appear as blue.

Right now, this dark colored text,

it is not really clear at all that we can click on this

and navigate somewhere inside of our application.

So we're going to style our link element

or our link component by using Tailwind CSS yet again.

Inside of our link.js file, at the very top,

I'm going to import classNames from classnames.

Then inside of our component, right above handleClick,

I'll make a new variable called classes,

and that's gonna be classNames.

Right now, I'm gonna have this thing always receive

a className of text-blue-500.

We're going to add in some additional

classNames in just a moment,

and that's why we are making use of the classNames helper.

I'm then going to apply classes

to our anchor element right here.

So I will give it a className prop of classes.

Oh, no, curly braces classes. There we go, that's better.

'Kay, so now if we flip back over, yep, text is blue.

Immediately, that's a lot better.
235
Presenter: Our link component and the route component,

both have some code to import use context,

and then navigation context and make use of them together.

I would like to do an identical refactor

to what we did on a previous project

where we made a very small custom hook.

This custom hook's job was really to just do exactly

what these three lines of code right here, right here,

and right here are doing.

So the only goal of this custom hook

is just to make it a little bit easier

for other engineers to use our navigation system.

Just save a tiny bit of typing.

In addition, this is just good practice,

on how we can make use of custom hooks.

So we're gonna do the same thing we did

on that previous project.

Inside of my S R C directory

I'm gonna make a new folder called hooks,

and then inside there,

I'll make a new file called use-navigation.js.

Inside this file I'm going to import navigation context

from up one directory, context, navigation.

And use context from React.

I will then export default.

Or let's not do the export just yet.

We'll make a function first called use navigation.

And anytime we call this function,

we are going to return use context,

with navigation context.

And then finally I will export that thing that's better.

So now we can make use of this custom hook

inside of our link file and the route file.

Again just to save a tiny, tiny bit of code.

So inside of route.js, I can now remove these two imports.

I can replace it within import

for use navigation from up one directory,

hooks, use navigation.

And then instead of use context right here,

we can call use navigation.

Same thing inside of link js.

So inside of link js,

I can remove the two context lines,

and replace it with use navigation from up one directory.

And then instead of using context right here,

we can replace it with use navigation.

Very, very small improvement.

But the goal here is just to get you thinking

about custom hooks,

because very shortly we're gonna do a deeper dive

into custom hooks.

And trust me, they're gonna get a lot more complicated

than this one right here.

So again, just a little bit of practice

I should be able to verify

that my application is still working.

So I should still be able to navigate around and yep,

looks like everything is working as expected
236
Instructor: There are still a couple

of improvements I would like to make

to our navigation system, but before we do these,

I want to start working on the sidebar component.

So the sidebar component is gonna show a list of links

to some of the different pages inside of our application.

So we should have links to dropdown, Accordion, button

and eventually some other features we're gonna add in

in a little bit.

Now, one thing I wanna point out is

that we want to show the dropdown page whenever a user is

at our root route.

So localhost:3000.

So we need to update first a little routing rule inside

of our app.js file to make sure that is the case.

We'll then get started on the sidebar component.

Alright, so inside of app.js,

I'm gonna find the route for dropdown right here

and I'll change the path to be just forward slash.

So now if I go to localhost:3000,

I should see the dropdown on the screen.

Alright, next up, let's get started

on the sidebar component.

So inside the components directory I will

make a new file call Sidebar.js.

Inside of here, I know I'm going to have to show a list

of links to the user

so I will right away import the link component from link.

I'll then make a sidebar component

and export it at the bottom.

Now there's a couple of different ways we

could put this sidebar component together.

One way we could possibly do it would be to

return a div that has a bunch

of link components listed all out one by one.

But that would get a little bit tedious 'cause

if we ever want to make it change or maybe add some CSS

or class name to these different link things right here,

we would have to go through and update every single one.

So just a little bit tedious.

So lemme show you a slightly better way

that we could set all this up

and show many different link components to the user.

At the top of my component,

I'm going to create a new variable called links.

This is going to be an array of objects

and every object is going to have a label

of something like Dropdown and a path.

So you might kinda see where I'm going with this.

We're going to create an array of objects that are

going to represent the individual links

that we want to show to a user.

So the first one is gonna be an object

that represents that link right there.

The second one will be a object that represents Accordion

and then button and so on.

We're then going to map over that array of objects and

for every object we'll produce a link component

using the label to specify what we want to show

inside the link

and path to specify the address the user is going to go

to whenever a user clicks on the link.

So again, just a little trick we can use here

to show a list of links

without having to actually write them all out one by one.

So in addition to the dropdown link,

I also want to have a link

to Accordion with a path of /accordion

and then one for Buttons with a path of /buttons.

I'll then make a new variable called renderedLinks

and that will be a links.map.

So we're gonna map over this list of objects.

For every object, I'm gonna receive it

into my mapping function as a variable called link

and then I'm going to return a link component.

The text I want to show

inside the link is going to be link.label.

We need to provide a key,

we don't really have an ID property here that we can use

but you'll notice that the labels are probably

going to be unique and consistent.

So we can use the label as the key prop.

And then of course we also have to provide a to prop

and to is gonna be where we're going to navigate

to whenever a user clicks on this link.

So that's why I added in the path property to these objects.

So to is link.path.

Now one thing I wanna clarify really quickly, I just made

up these property names on the fly of label and path.

These don't have to be label and path.

It could be something like textToShow and instead of path,

it could be something like just to.

I just thought these properties kind

of made a little bit of sense.

If another engineer looks at the sidebar component,

they would probably understand really quickly the idea

behind this array of link objects.

Alright, after creating that array of components,

I'm then going to show it inside the div down here.

So I will display renderedLinks.

Before we move on and try to use this thing,

I want to start applying some styling.

So on the div that is wrapping renderedLinks,

I'm gonna add a class name

with a couple of different classes.

Again, these are all coming from Tailwind CSS.

So I'm gonna add in sticky top-0 overflow-7-scroll flex,

and flex-col.

All right, I'm gonna save this file.

I'll then go back over to app.js.

Then at the top, I no longer need the link component

because we're not gonna show these links in here manually.

Instead, we're gonna show the links

using these sidebar components.

So I remove the import at the top and I will

remove these two links right here.

I will then import the sidebar component

from components/Sidebar and show the sidebar right there.

Let's do a quick test just to make sure everything is kinda

at least starting off correctly.

So if I save both files and flip back over, I'll now

see the list of links and I should be able to click

on Accordion to see the Accordion and drop down to

see the dropdown.

If I click on Buttons, I will see nothing right now

because we have not set up a routing rule to

show the ButtonPage component,

let's change that right away.

So to show the ButtonPage component,

I need to import it at the top

and then set up a routing rule.

So I'll add in a new route with a path of /buttons

and inside that route I will put ButtonPage.

Now if we go to Buttons, yep, we'll see the list of buttons.

You might notice that I'm getting some console logs now

as I move my mouse around on the screen,

you might recall that is

because we left an our ButtonPage component.

Some event handlers around that trigger

whenever a mouse enters one of these different buttons.

So that's why I'm sometimes

seeing the console log appear down here.

If we wanna fix that up really quick

and just clean up those console logs,

we could go to the ButtonPage component.

So that's inside pages, ButtonPage

and just delete the console log right there.

I'm still gonna leave around the handle click just

so I don't have to go around

and clean up a bunch of different components.

So now we won't get that annoying console log anymore.

Alright, one last thing really quickly.

In these original mockups we showed the sidebar

off to the left hand side.

So let's just apply a little bit more styling to

make sure it actually does show up on the left hand side

and have the content on the right hand side.

So to get that kind of nice styling,

we're gonna add a little bit of CSS into the app.js file.

So here's my app component.

I'm gonna find the top level div inside of here

and give it a class name with container mx-auto

grid grid-cols-6 gap-4 mt-4.

Then on the div right here that is wrapping all

of our different routes, I'm gonna add

in a class name with col-span-5.

Alright, if I save all that, I'll end up

with something that looks like this and if I zoom

out to 100%, yeah, I get something like that.

It doesn't look great just yet.

So we will add in a little bit more CSS

to make this look a little bit better.

But we are at least off to kind of a good start here,

I would say.
237
Instructor: Our sidebar component is showing up

but it definitely needs a little bit of work.

There are two really big things we need to

make sure this thing does, so we need to make sure

that each link has some additional spacing underneath it.

Let's go and add a className right away

that's gonna give us some additional spacing.

We could add this className

in directly to our link.js file.

So inside the link.js file,

I'm gonna find the classNames helper right here

and I'm going to add

in a second argument to it of mb-3.

So if I save that, I'm not gonna have some extra margin

on the bottom edge of each of these different links.

So that definitely is a little bit better.

We've now got the correct spacing.

However, we would not want

to leave this additional className

in here and think about why that is.

Right now, we are only showing our link component

on the sidebar over here.

And so right now, yeah, we always want to have our links

with additional spacing underneath.

But eventually we might use our link component

in some other location inside of our app.

And in those other locations,

we would not want to have this hard-coded className

in here because then all

of our different links would have margin on the bottom.

So that is definitely not ideal.

So here's how we're gonna fix this.

Whenever we show our link component, we're going to

allow other developers to give us a className prop.

We'll then take that className

and we're going to add it in to our list of classNames.

So now whenever some other developer

uses our link component, they can easily add

in some additional className prop

and customize our link in there

for their particular use case.

So now we can go back over to our sidebar component.

Here's sidebar.

And right here, when we build up our list of links,

we can now add in an additional className of mb-3.

So now only in this particular case, only

for these sidebar links we're putting together,

only those are gonna have the additional margin

on the bottom.

Okay, so that's definitely a good improvement.

But in addition to this extra spacing,

there's something else you'll notice

on these different mockups.

Right now a user is visiting localhost:3000.

This link right here, the dropdown one corresponds

to that address.

So this thing's to prop is essentially matched up

or closely coupled with this address right here.

So I want to highlight, or I want to kind of bold the text

for that link and show a little kind of blue border

on the left hand side.

This will allow users to understand that they're currently

looking at this link's page right here, the dropdown.

If user then goes over to the accordion, they would be

at an address of localhost:3000/accordion.

So now the path in the address bar

corresponds to this links to property.

And so now we would want to kind of highlight

that particular link right there

and no longer highlight the dropdown

So let's figure out how we can fix this

or add this additional functionality in.

Lemme just show you a diagram that's gonna

summarize how we're going to do it.

Okay, here we go.

So inside of our not app but our sidebar component,

we are creating a list of links.

I'm only showing one link right now

specifically the one for the accordion link.

So our sidebar is gonna give this link a to property,

a className, and we're going to add

in one additional prop to it called activeClassName.

The idea here is

that this is gonna be a string or some additional list

of classNames that we're going to apply

to our anchor element only

if this particular links to fields is equal

to the currentPath stored inside of our context.

So the currentPath that the user is visiting right now.

So our link component is gonna have to reach up,

get the currentPath, and then if the to prop right here

of accordion is equal to currentPath,

we're gonna take that activeClassName prop

and add it to our anchor element.

That is how we're going to add in some additional styling

if a user is visiting an address that corresponds

to this particular link.

So let's try implementing this inside

of our link component first, and we'll add

in some additional classNames to our sidebar.

So inside of our link.js file, we are already reaching

up into our navigation context right here

and we're pulling out the navigate function.

In addition to that,

we're now going to also get our currentPath piece of state.

Then inside of our classNames function,

we're gonna add in an additional check here.

So we're going to say

if currentPath is equal to the to prop

then I want to add in a className of activeClassName

and that's going to be a prop that is gonna flow

into our component.

So I'll add in activeClassName right there.

Notice once again, that I'm using a little bit

of a fancy check right here.

So we're only going to end up

with activeClassName if currentPath is equal to to.

Okay, so now we can save the link.js file.

We'll then go back over to sidebar.

I'm gonna find where we build

up our list of links right here.

So now in addition to always applying this className,

we're also gonna add in some className

that is only going to be applied

to the anchor element if this is the current active link.

So I'll add in activeClassName

and this one's gonna get a couple of different classes.

So font-bold border-l-4 border-blue-500 and pl-2.

Okay, let's save that.

And if we now go back over, hey, it actually works.

So now if a user is at the dropdown link,

we'll see that link highlighted.

If we go to Accordion, that one will be highlighted

and if we go to Buttons, that one will be highlighted.

Very good.

Now there's one other very quick thing I wanna fix up here.

You might notice that if you kind of hover

over to the right hand side of a link, we can still click

in the area over here and trigger the link.

That's just due to a little bit

of bad CSS I neglected to add in

in an additional className.

To this div down here

at the bottom of our sidebar component.

So in addition to flex and flex-col,

we also have to add in a className of align-start.

So I'm gonna add that in and save it.

And now hopefully, you know what,

did I actually get that className wrong?

I got it wrong. I apologize.

Oh, I need to look up in my tailwind CSS documentation.

So what we need to do is make sure

that all the different items are kind of

off to the left hand side of the sidebar component.

So it's not align-items, it is items-start.

I always do that little mix up, items-start,

that's what we're looking for.

Okay, that's better.

So now if I hover off to the right hand side

of these links, they're no longer clickable.

It's only when I actually hover

over the link itself that I can click it.

Okay, that's better.

Okay, so this looks pretty good

and I'm pretty happy with the functionality
238
Instructor: Well, that is it for right now

around navigation inside of our project.

We're still going to work with our navigation stuff

because we're gonna add in some additional pages

to our application.

But I just wanna do a quick wrap up

on navigation in general.

So we have put together our own custom navigation solution.

It is not perfect, it is not fully featured,

but it's still pretty good.

When you go and start working on professional projects,

you will very often use some different navigation libraries.

These are navigation libraries very similar in nature

to the stuff we have put together,

but they are a little bit more fully featured.

The most popular library right now is React-Router,

but there are a couple of other options out there.

Turns out that all the navigation stuff

you and I have put together actually really follows

very closely how many of these different libraries work.

So just very quickly, I'm gonna pull up the documentation

for the React-Router library.

So here's the documentation page.

If I scroll down a little bit, you're gonna notice

that they have pretty much set up everything very similar

to how we have set things up ourselves.

So they have a kind of Router component.

They then have some different Route components

that dictate what component's

going to be displayed on the screen.

To navigate around, they use some different Link components,

so very similar to what we have done.

I've also got some documentation

for the wouter library here.

So if I go down to this thing's documentation,

we can see that they also have

these kind of Route components

and they also have these Link components as well.

So we were putting everything together from scratch

just so you could understand how navigation works

and some of the theory behind it.

But everything we put together is gonna be super directly

applicable to these routing libraries that you and I

are going to eventually use later on inside the course

and on your own professional projects.

So even though this is a custom setup,

it still very closely matches how a lot of these

professional libraries are going to work.

