249
Instructor: I'm really excited about this next component

we're gonna work on, because we're gonna make a component

that you're going to use

on almost every project you ever work on.

We're gonna make a table,

a really fully featured, very reusable table component.

So by default, we're gonna have it showing a list of fruits,

so we'll have the name of a fruit, the color of that fruit,

and then just some score,

just a total random made-up number, essentially.

Now, this is the data we're gonna show in the table,

but we're gonna make a table component

that is very reusable in nature,

so you will be able to reuse this table component

with other kinds of data as well.

So you could have a list of users in here,

a list of messages, a list of just about anything

you could possibly imagine, we will be able to display

with our reusable table component.

The component itself is gonna have a lot of features

that you'd expect to have in a table,

so we will allow users to click on the headers up here

and sort all the different rows based upon the value

inside of some column.

Now, to get started on our table,

we're gonna go through the same series of tasks

that we went through back on our modal component.

So we're gonna make a table component,

we're gonna make a table page to display the component,

we're gonna add a route to our App.js file,

and we're gonna add a link to this sidebar component.

So we know all these tasks pretty well,

so let's just get them all done right now in this video.

Okay, so to get started, inside my components directory,

I will make a new file called Table.js.

Inside there, I'll make my table component.

I'll just say return a div that says table right now,

and then I will export that.

Next up, inside of our pages directory,

I'll make a new file called TablePage.js.

Inside of here, I'm going to import

the table component we just created,

so up one directory, components, table.

I'll then make table page.

I'm going to return a div that will display our table,

and then I will export this at the bottom.

Okay, next up, let's open the App.js file.

So here's App.js inside of our root SRC directory.

I'm going to import the table page we just created

and add in a new route.

So I'll make a new route right after our modal one.

Whenever a user goes to slash table,

we're going to display the table page component.

And then finally, we need to add a link to our sidebar,

so back inside the components directory,

I will find Sidebar.js,

and all we have to do is add in a new object

to this array of objects, so I'll give it a label of table.

And whenever someone clicks on this,

we're gonna take them to a path of slash table.

Okay, so that's it.

Let's save all these different files

we just made changes to, then back inside of our browser,

we should see a new link right there.

I'll click on table,

and I'll see just the text table for right now.

Okay, looks good.

Good place to get started.

So now let's take a pause here.

We're gonna come back in just a moment

and start going into some details

around how React treats tables.
250
Instructor: The goal of our table component

is to show some data to the user.

So, we need to make sure that our table component

actually receives some data, and we need to think about

what the structure of that data is going to be.

So we're gonna make a little assumption right now.

We're going to assume that our table component

is going to display data

that is coming from an array of objects.

Every object is gonna represent one row inside of our table.

So, the first object is going to correspond

to the first row right here that has the name of orange.

Second object, right there,

is gonna correspond to the second row.

These different objects are gonna have

a couple of different properties assigned to them.

So they'll have a name, a color that we're going to use

to figure out what color of little box to show right here,

and then a score property as well.

We're going to define all this data

inside of our parent component,

which, for you and I, is the table page component.

So we're gonna define that as a list of fruits.

It's gonna be 100% hard coded for right now.

It's not really gonna change over time.

We're then gonna pass this list of fruits

down into our table component using the prop system.

And then our table component is gonna figure out

how to display that list.

So, let's open up our table page component.

We're gonna write out pretty much

that exact structure you see right there

and then pass it down as props into our table.

Okay, so here's my table page component.

At the top, I'm going to create a new variable called data.

This is going to be an array of objects.

The first object I'm gonna write out here

is going to have a name of everything you see right there.

So the first one is going to be orange,

apple, banana, and so on.

So orange with a color of bg orange 500 and a score of five.

Then, to save a little bit of time,

I'm gonna copy that object and paste it down a few times.

I'll then update each object one at a time.

So, on the second object,

I'm gonna have a name of apple,

a color of bg red 500, and a score of three.

On the third object, I'll have a banana

with a color of bg yellow 500 and a score of one.

And then, on the last object, I'll have a name of lime,

a color of bg green 500, and a score of four.

Okay, so that's the data we're gonna pass down

into our table component.

So now I'm gonna go down to my table element right there.

I'm gonna pass this data down as a prop called data.

There's nothing special about the prop name of data;

I just think it makes sense

to pass down a prop with that particular name.

It's now inside of our Table.js file.

We can receive that prop.

And for right now,

let's just print out the number of objects inside there.

So I'm gonna print out data.length.

And back inside of our browser,

we should see the number four.
251
Instructor: We've got our data

inside of the table component.

So now, inside of here,

instead of returning a div,

I'm going to return a plain table element.

So notice now that we have a component called table,

and we have a JSX element called table.

This is going to create a HTML table element,

which is a standard HTML element.

Now, whenever we make a HTML table,

React is going to enforce a certain structure

of elements inside of here.

So, let me tell you what that means.

Whenever I show a table element in normal HTML,

I can show a thead inside there,

along with a tbody.

I'll explain what these elements do in just a moment.

If I save this, and go back over to my browser,

I don't see any content on the screen,

but you'll notice I also don't see any errors.

That's because showing a thead and a tbody inside of a table

is absolutely okay and expected.

One thing I'm not allowed to do inside of a table

is show a div.

This is not valid HTML.

Your browser will display it,

but it's not really intended to show a div

inside of a table element.

So if I save this,

React is actually gonna show us a little warning message.

It says that a div cannot appear as a child of a table.

Now, our content is still going to be displayed

on the screen.

It's totally fine,

but React is kind of complaining to us, and it's saying,

"Hey, you're really not supposed to show a div

inside of a table element."

So in order to show a table with React,

we really have to understand a little bit around basic HTML

and how an HTML table is supposed to work.

So let me give you a quick refresher.

Okay, here we go.

So we're gonna go over some different common elements

that we use inside of a table element.

And again, this is really plain HTML stuff.

This is not particular to React.

So inside of a table element,

we can show a thead and a tbody.

The thead is gonna serve as the header of our table,

and the tbody is gonna serve

as a collection of different rows.

Inside of a thead,

we're going to have a tr.

The tr represents one row of headers.

Each individual header column,

so like, Fruits, Color, and Score,

is gonna be represented by a th element.

So, I've got one th for fruits, another th for color,

and another th for score.

Then for the body, here's tbody,

each individual row will be represented with a tr element.

So, I've got a tr for the first fruit.

I've got another tr for the second fruit down here.

Within a tr, we will have a collection of td elements.

Each td represents a single cell or single column

within that row.

So I've got a td of Orange for Orange right there.

I've then got a second td for the next cell,

and a third td for the third cell over here.

So this is the general structure we're going to use

anytime we try to show a table with React.

And if you don't follow this structure, well, like you saw,

React is gonna show a warning message in the console

and tell you you're not really doing things correctly.

You do not really have to memorize this structure,

because, to be honest with you

there are a collection,

just hundreds and thousands of different resources online,

that will remind you on exactly how you can create a table.

So you really don't have to memorize this.

Anytime you need to make a table,

recommend you just do a quick search

and you'll get a quick reminder

on the different elements you are expected to display.

Okay, so let's now take this knowledge,

we're gonna go back over to our component

and we're gonna write out some HTML

that looks very similar to what you see right here.

And for right now,

we're just gonna worry about showing the header.

So showing a thead with a single tr

that's gonna have a th with Fruits, Color, and Score.

So back inside of Table.js,

inside of thead, I'm gonna add in a tr,

then a th with Fruit.

I think I called,

what'd I call that one?

I called it Fruits over here, we call it Fruits.

Fruit doesn't really make a big difference.

Then the second one will be Color, and Score.

If I then save this, and go back over,

I still see the warning.

That's the same warning we saw previously.

So if you refresh the page,

you should not see a warning message anymore.

And now I've got my three columns.

So I've got Fruit, Color and Score.
252
Instructor: The next thing we need to work on

is showing a separate row inside of our tbody element

for every object inside of our data array.

We can do this very easily by using a mapping function

as we've done several times inside the course already.

So up here at the top,

I've got each object inside of our data array.

We're going to pass each one into a mapping function.

Inside the mapping function,

we're then going to return a TR element

that has a couple of TDs inside of it.

Each TD is gonna print out

one individual column worth of information.

So the first one will be the name of the fruit,

then the color, and then the score of that fruit.

This mapping function is gonna run on every single object

and produce a new TR for each one.

We can then show all these different TRs

and see it side of our tbody element.

And that should display our rows on the screen.

So let's give this a shot.

Back over here, at the very top,

I'm gonna create a new variable called renderedRows.

And this will be the result of data.map.

So I'm gonna receive every fruit object.

And for every fruit,

I'm going to return a TR

that's gonna have three TDs inside of it.

In the first TD, I'm gonna print out the fruit's name.

In the second one, I'm gonna print out the fruit color.

And then in the third one, the fruit score.

Now, at present,

we're just printing out the color of the fruit.

And our goal is to eventually, actually,

print a little square that shows the color.

So right now, we're just printing out a string.

We are gonna have to come back

and make sure we kinda update this rendering process

just a little bit to get our desired result.

Because we are building up a list

of elements inside of a mapping function,

we do have to assign a key prop to the TR right here.

Our fruit data does not have an ID that we can use as a key,

but each fruit object does have a name property

that is consistent and unique.

So we can use the name as our key instead.

So for TR, I'll add in a key prop of fruit.name.

Finally,

we can show the list

of renderedRows inside of our tbody element.

So down here, I'll find tbody.

And inside there, I'll print out renderedRows.

Let's save this.

If we flip back over, there's our table.

So we can now see all of our different records.

So at this point in time, this is kinda basic stuff.

We're just doing the same kind of list building exercise

that we've done several times inside the course already.

So this is where we're gonna start

to go off the deep end a little bit.

I'm gonna point out some big issues with our table

as it stands right now

and we're gonna start to make a couple of fixes

to this thing
253
Instructor: We've got our table displayed on the screen

but it's not looking great.

It needs first a little bit of styling.

We're then gonna make sure that the color column

shows an actual little color square

instead of just this plain string.

And then we're going to start to address some big issues

around the fact that right now

our table component is not very reusable in nature.

So first off, a little bit of styling.

To get started on styling

I'm gonna find my three td's inside the mapping function.

And on each td,

I'm gonna add in a class name of p-3.

So there's one, two, and three.

Then on the tr I'm gonna add in a class name

of border-b.

Then down towards the bottom

I'm gonna find the table element and give it a class name

of table-auto and border spacing two.

Then on the tr inside the T head body, excuse me, the T

the tr inside the T head element.

A lot of repetitive terms here.

I'm gonna add in a class name of border b two.

If I save this,

I'll then end up with a much better looking table.

So now let's work on making sure that

the second column shows an actual little color square

as opposed to just the string.

So these different strings you see right here

are actual tailwind css class names.

If we give an element a class name of BG Orange 500,

that element will have a background

that kind of looks orange in nature.

Same thing with the red one, yellow and green one.

So up here at render rows, I'm gonna find our second td.

Inside there I'm going to place, instead of fruit.color

I'm gonna delete that

and I'm going to replace it with a div.

This is going to have no content at all

but I'm gonna give it a class name.

I'm gonna do a little computation for the class name here.

So I'm gonna put in curly braces

and then use a template string.

So back ticks once again, not single quotes here.

I'll then put in p-3, m-2,

and then dollar sign curly braces, fruit.color, like so.

Now if I save this and flip back over.

There we go.

I've got the little squares with a little color.

Just to demonstrate the color

of each of these individual fruits.

I'd say the banana looks a little bit too ripe

and the lime looks a little bit too green.

We could always play around with the colors a little bit

but for the most part I would say this looks

kind of reasonable for right now.

Okay, so our table looks better.

It looks good and it definitely looks like

what we originally set out to do

but it's definitely missing some really big features.

For example, I cannot sort anything.

That's what these little arrows right here

is supposed to be.

We're supposed to have the ability to

sort the individual rows inside the table.

In addition,

my table component itself is not at all reusable.

The table component assumes that we always get

an array of objects that has a name property,

a color property, and a score.

And further it assumes that the second column

is always going to display a little div that is

supposed to have a little color inside of it.

So we have to do a lot of work here

on our table component to actually make it reusable.

So we can use the table again in the future

with totally different data that doesn't represent fruits
254
Lecturer: Time to confront

the real issue with our table component.

And that is the fact that it is not at all reusable.

The table component right now is 100% programmed

to only work with fruit objects.

And we can recognize this because it's trying to access

specific properties that might only belong

to a fruit object, like name, color, and score.

Eventually we might want to have an application

that shows a list of fruits and we can definitely do that,

but we also might want to show a table that has a list

of maybe vehicles and a vehicle object

might have a name, a price, a discount rate,

and maybe an image to display inside the table.

So we need to make sure that our table component

can show either an array of fruit objects

or an array of vehicle objects

or really any other kind of array that contains objects.

So our table component clearly needs

a lot of work to make it reusable.

To really clarify what we need to do,

we're going to come up with a list of requirements.

I'm gonna say here are the things

we want our table to be able to do.

So I've got two examples here of tables

that I want to eventually be able to produce.

On the left hand side, I've got the table

we already put together.

We've got really everything shown inside here

with the exception of sorting.

So I want to be able to click on this header right here

and sort all the different rows based upon the score.

And then we're gonna work along

with a second example over here,

a table that's gonna show a listing of different vehicles.

So a truck, a car, a boat.

Every vehicle is gonna have a price.

We're also gonna show a discounted price,

and we'll imagine that we might also want to display

an image for the vehicle as well.

Okay, so here's the list of requirements.

Here's what our table needs to be able to do.

This list of requirements right here is really important

because it's going to really dictate

what we're doing in the coming videos.

So we need to make sure that our table

can have a variable number of rows.

Well, we've kind of already got that, right?

We are mapping over our data array

for every object inside there.

We are creating a separate row.

So that one, kind of already done.

Next, our table must be able to support

a variable number of columns.

So right now it is definitely hard coded.

It can only have three columns exactly.

One column is fruit, color, and then score.

So we need to make sure we can have

as many or as few columns as we wish.

In addition, just as clarification, the number of columns

we're gonna end up with should not have to match

the number of properties inside of our object.

So our vehicle objects down here, which might have

a name, price, discount, image.

For properties, there are four columns,

but I don't want to be locked into that.

I might have four properties

but only want to show two columns.

So I should be able to dictate very easily

the number of columns my table's going to have.

Some of our columns should be sortable, but not all of them.

So it doesn't really make a lot of sense

to try to sort an image column.

Really doesn't make, maybe we want to sort

on image size or something like that, I don't know.

But for this example, I don't think

I'd really want to be able to sort by an image.

In addition, if a column is sortable,

we should be able to sort different kinds of values.

So a sortable column, we might need to sort

based upon alphabet characters or an actual number.

So I should be able to sort on either kind of data.

Sales should also be able to be calculated

using multiple different properties.

So let me explain that one really quickly.

Notice how inside of our vehicle object down here,

I've got a price property and a discount property.

The discount is gonna be a fraction that we would take off

of the price to come up with a discounted price.

So if my price is 15,000 and I have a discount of 0.1,

to come up the discounted price,

I would do something like 15,000 times one minus 0.1.

So that's a calculation that I would do and that would

leave me with a final discounted price of 13,500.

So what I really mean to say here is that

the value in each individual cell, if I want to,

I should be able to kind of calculate it on the fly.

Now this is gonna be calculated by us, a developer,

a user is not gonna be able to go in here

and type in an actual calculation.

We're not making an actual spreadsheet.

And then finally, cells should be able to display

any kind of arbitrary data.

So I should be able to have cells that can display text

or numbers or images or as we saw on the last table

over here, a simple color square and so on.

So I should not just be taking properties directly

out of an object and trying to display them as text.

'Cause that would not work with, say,

this image property down here.

Okay, so that's it.

That's the requirements for our table.

Now I want to be kind of clear right away.

This is pretty ambitious.

We've got a lot of work ahead of us.

Ultimately, we don't really have to write out a lot of code.

The real challenge is just understanding

how we're gonna build a table.

That's the real challenge.

Fortunately, I think we could probably

make our way through it.

So let's start building up this reusable version

of our table in just a moment.
255
nstructor: My friends time for the big reveal.

We're gonna understand how we're gonna make

our table component far more reusable in nature.

So let's get to it.

Alright, so here's our table component at the bottom.

Right now, we are passing down a data prop.

That is an array

of objects that has all the data we want to show inside

of our table.

To make our table more reusable,

we're also gonna pass down a second array of objects.

This second array of objects is gonna be called config.

Each object is gonna have some information

that tells our component how we want

to render out the table.

Understanding this array of objects

and the different properties

on each object is gonna be a little bit challenging.

So we're gonna just take it really slowly step by step.

So, first, two very basic ideas.

The first basic idea is that every single object

inside this configure A is going to tell our component,

our table component, how we want to represent

or show one column inside the table.

So right now, this configure A has three objects inside

of it that's gonna tell our table component

that we want to show three columns in total.

How we display the first column is going to be controlled

by the first object, how we control or how we display

the second column will be controlled

by the second object, and so on.

So for every object we have inside the configure A,

we're gonna have a separate column.

These objects are gonna have several different

properties assigned to them.

For right now, we're just gonna focus

on a very simple property that's gonna be very easy

for us to implement, and that is the label property.

So you'll see

that every object has a label, a label, and a label.

Those labels are going to be used very simply

to just decide what to put

inside the header of every single column.

So you'll see I have a label

of fruits right there on the first object.

That means right here in the very first

TH inside the header, I went to print out fruits.

Then the second column says color.

That's because it has a label of color,

and the third one has a label of score.

That's because the object over here has a label of score.

Okay, so for right now,

we're just gonna focus on implementing this config object

and putting in this idea of this label property.

We'll then come back in a little bit,

and we'll start to add in some additional properties

to these config objects such as render and sort.

And those are what are going to allow us

to show more complex values

and eventually sort some different columns as well.

But for right now,

we're just gonna worry about implementing label.
256
Instructor: Let's start adding in the idea

of this config array into our table component.

So we're going to create the config array

inside of table page.

We're gonna make it inside the parent component.

The parent component is going to create this config array

so it can customize the table component

and tell it exactly how it wants to display some data.

For right now, the only property we're gonna worry about

inside of this configure is the label

inside of each of these different objects.

So we're gonna define an array of objects,

there's gonna be three in total.

Each is gonna have a label property

of Fruits, Color, and Score.

Fruits, Color, and Score are going to be used to produce

the th elements at the very top of our table.

So rather than hard coding these

inside of our table component,

we're now going to generate them on the fly

by using this array of objects.

So right now, this is pretty much

a simple and straightforward refactor.

Inside of our table component, so Table.js,

if you scroll down to the bottom,

right now those th elements are hard coded in.

So all we're doing right now

is generating these th elements on the fly

using some configuration passed down

from the parent component.

That's all we're doing right now.

Okay, so to get started, I'm gonna open up TablePage.js.

Here's TablePage, here's what we define all of our data.

Right after that,

I'm gonna make a new variable called config.

I'm gonna put in three objects.

The first one is gonna have a label of Name,

then Color, and then Score.

Eventually these will have some additional properties

but again, for right now, we're staying very simple.

We're just worrying about adding in this label property.

So I'm going to then take the config array

and pass it down as a prop into table, also called config.

Next, I'll go into Table.js.

I'm going to receive that config prop at the very top.

And then once again, the only goal right now

is to produce these ths on the fly

instead of having them hard-coded inside of here.

So I can produce those ths

by mapping over the config array of objects.

And for every object inside there,

I can really just pull off that label property.

So let's try doing that right now.

At the very top,

I'm gonna add in a new variable called renderedHeaders.

This will be config map.

Every object inside the config array

is kind of like a column configuration object.

So I'm gonna call the argument right here, column.

We could also call it columnConfig.

Either one is totally fine.

I'm just gonna call it simply column.

So this column argument right here

is gonna be each of the different objects

we just created back inside of table page.

So inside of our mapping function,

we can return a th that prints out this columns label.

We need a key prop on this thing.

I'm gonna use a key of the columns label as well

because that is consistent

and doesn't really change over time,

and it's probably gonna be unique as well.

I'm probably not gonna have duplicate column names

inside of my table.

All right, so now we're going to display

rendered headers down inside of our table

instead of these three hard-coded ths.

So I will delete the three hard-coded ths

and replace it with rendered headers.

And that's it.

So now if we save this, we can go back over

and I'll see my three different column headers

of Name, Color, and Score.

So now if we go back to table page

we can change those headers very easily

without having to change our table component.

So let's say, for example,

I don't want the first column to say Name anymore.

Maybe I want it to say Fruits or something like that.

If I put in Fruits right there,

for the first object and then flip back over.

Now the first column is gonna say Fruits if you want.

If I want it to be something like Name of Fruit,

you get the idea, we can change it to be whatever we want

and we can make our table appear slightly differently

without having to change the table component itself.

And this also means we can now display

different table components

and give them each different sets of config,

and each table component

is going to display slightly differently on the screen.

So I think we're definitely going down

the right path right now.

We can now configure our table component

without directly changing it.

It's definitely more reusable in nature,

so we're going down the right path.

So all we have to do now

is start to introduce these additional properties

that are going to change our table a little bit more

than what we're currently doing.
257
Instructor: We've taken care of the headers on our table.

So now we're going to try to generate the contents

of the table using some configuration

passed from the parent component.

So this is where things get just a little bit challenging

but don't sweat it.

We're gonna go over this one step at a time.

Okay, so once again

we've got our config array that has a couple

of different objects inside of it.

Each object controls how one entire column

is going to be displayed on the screen.

Now we just took care of the label property.

So now we're gonna move on to another property

that each of these objects are going to have.

It's called the render function.

So each object has a render function.

These render functions describe how we are going to

produce all the content that is displayed inside

of one column.

So that first render function is gonna tell us

how to make all this content.

The second render function,

so the one right here inside the second object,

is gonna tell us how to produce all this content.

And then the same one with the third object.

So let's take a look at a kind of complex diagram

and understand how the render function is gonna work

in a little bit more detail.

Alright, here we go.

So on the left hand side of this diagram

I've got our data array.

So that has each of our different data objects.

I've got the apple object,

the orange object right here, banana, and lime.

In the middle, I've got the configure.

So this has a couple of different objects,

each of which controls how an entire column

is going to be displayed.

Then we're gonna walk through the process

of how we're going to eventually come up

with all the different values to show inside of our table.

So we already took care of the columns,

we've got the columns taken care of.

Now we need to figure out how we're going to show some value

inside this cell, that cell, that cell, and so on.

So here's what's going to happen.

Right now, inside of our existing table component

we are mapping over each object inside the data array.

Let's go and find that really quick.

Here's table.js.

Here's the table component.

So we are mapping over the data array right here.

So we are already doing a little bit of a mapping statement.

We're taking a look at each individual fruit object.

So we're taking an entire fruit object

and we're using it to produce all the different td's

that we need to show inside of one row.

We're gonna do something almost identical.

We're just adding in one additional step here.

So we're still going to map over

each of these objects one at a time.

We're gonna take the first object

and we're gonna pass it into the first functions

or excuse me the first objects render function.

So this argument of fruit right here

we're going to receive this entire big fruit object.

We're then going to return fruit.name

which is gonna give us back a string of apple.

We're then gonna take that string

and put it into the first cell right here.

So I would end up with apple.

Then we are still mapping over the same apple object.

We're gonna move on to the next render function.

So the render function down here for the second column.

This render function is

going to receive the current fruit object we are working on

which is the same apple object.

This render function is going to dictate what

content we show inside of the second column right here.

So in this case, we receive the fruit object.

We then return a div that uses the fruits

fruit objects, color property.

So that's what's going to show some kind

of colored box right there.

So in this case, we're gonna return a div that has a fruit

or a class name of BG red 500.

So we're gonna end up with a red cell right there.

Then we're still mapping over the same apple object.

We're gonna move on to the third render function.

So the apple object is gonna flow

into that render function right there.

We're gonna pull off the score property and return it.

And so over here we're going to display the number three.

So we built up each value inside this one row.

Now that we've taken care of everything inside of that row

we are all done with the apple object.

So we're gonna throw it away

and we're gonna move on to the next object, which is orange.

So we're gonna repeat the exact same process.

We're going to go to the first render function.

Orange is gonna show up as the fruit argument.

We're gonna pull off the name property

and show it inside this first cell right here,

so we'll end up with orange.

Then we're gonna move on to the next render function,

right here.

It's gonna receive this orange object

and we're gonna use the returned result

to decide what to display right there.

So yeah, it's gonna be a orange box

and I think you understand where this is going.

We're gonna move on to the third render function down here.

It's gonna receive the orange fruit object

and that's going to dictate what we show

inside the third column over here.

So it'll be a score of five and that's it.

Now this diagram and my explanation of it

I think is probably more complex than the actual code.

So let's go and write some code

and I think it's gonna really clarify what's going on here

because honestly the code we have to change

is really not gonna be that bad.
258
Instructor: Let's add this idea of a render function

into each of our different config objects.

So back inside my editor, I'm gonna find TablePage.js.

Here's our config array.

The first object right here controls the first column.

I gave it a label of name of fruit,

that was just a quick example.

I'm gonna change it back to name

because I think that's more appropriate for our table.

So then on this first object

I'm gonna add in a render property,

that's gonna be a function.

It's going to receive a fruit

and then return some value that we want to display

inside of this first column.

So this first render function controls each value

we're showing in just the first column.

So the first render function will return fruit.name.

All right?

Then the second one is gonna receive a fruit object.

And then eventually we want to return a div

that has some class name.

For right now we're gonna keep it simple,

we're just going to display a color property.

Just the color property.

So bg, yellow, red, or whatever it is.

So the second render function will return fruit.color

and then the third one, excuse me,

is going to return fruit.score.

There we go.

Okay, so at this point in time, not too bad, right?

These are really just kind of simple functions

that we're passing down into the table components.

So now let's open up the table and we're going to make sure

that our actual values inside the table are being generated

by using these functions.

We're gonna do this in a two-step process.

So we're gonna do a immediate refactor right now

that's not great, it's gonna work,

but it's not perfect code.

The reason we're gonna do this intermediate refactor

is just to make sure it's super clear what is going on.

Okay? So inside of table.js

we've got the renderRows variable.

We are mapping over every object inside of our data array,

so we're getting those fruit objects.

Then inside of here

we are producing the three different TD elements.

So these three different TD elements

dictate what we're gonna show right there, right there

and right there for the first fruit object.

And then right there, right there, right there

for the second fruit object and so on.

We do not want to have these hard-coded TDs anymore

where we directly try to access properties

like name, color, and score.

Instead, we want to decide what to show inside

of these TDs by using the render functions we just

put together a moment ago back inside of table page.

So here's the intermediate refactor.

This is not perfect code,

just meant for demonstration purposes,

and we're gonna change this into a kind of final version

in just a moment.

So for the first TD right here

I do not want to have a hard-coded fruit.name.

Instead, I want to use the config arrays

first objects render function.

And so I'm gonna call exactly that function right there

instead of putting in fruit.name.

So I'm gonna write in config at zero.render

and then pass in the fruit object.

So think about what that does.

This is ultimately very simple

and straightforward JavaScript.

We're gonna take the fruit object

that we are currently mapping over

and we're gonna pass it into this function right here.

We're gonna get back exactly the fruit's name

and that's what's gonna be displayed inside the first TD.

And that's it, that's all that's going on there.

Now we're gonna repeat the process

for the other two TDs as well.

So for the second TD,

instead of displaying this huge div right here,

I'm gonna put in config at one dot render fruit.

So once again, this is really just plain JavaScript.

We are calling the second render function right here.

So returning the fruit objects color property

and then here's the third TD.

Instead of doing fruit.score

we're gonna do config at two render fruit.

All right, now if we save this

we're gonna see our content appear

and we are back to kind of the string version of color.

Not perfect, but hey, it works.

So it's very clear that inside of renderedRows

we can reference our config object.

We can pull out a particular render function,

put a fruit object into it, and get back some property,

or some value that we want to show in each individual TD.

Now again, this is an intermediate refactor,

so this is not perfect code.

The reason it is not perfect is that we're still assuming

that we're always gonna have exactly three different columns

inside of our table.

So if we ever want to show a table with two columns,

or one column or five columns,

this code isn't going to work.

So we're gonna have to do one last refactor here

and make sure that the number of TDs that we show is equal

to the number of config objects inside of our config pro.

So that's the last step,

and don't worry that part isn't too bad.
259
Instructor: Time for the second part of our refactor.

So right now,

we are assuming that we're always

gonna have exactly three TD elements.

Not good because we can only ever show tables

with exactly three TDs.

So we're gonna fix this up

by doing a mapping function inside of a mapping function.

Now, this is gonna sound really kind of crazy, really nasty.

All we are doing here is producing this exact JSX

using a second mapping function

that we're gonna nest inside of this one.

So we're going to map over our config array.

For every object inside there,

we're gonna call the render function

and pass in the current fruit that we are iterating over.

And we're gonna use that to produce a new TD element.

So essentially,

all we're doing is replacing exactly this code right here.

So I'm going to delete that.

Above the return statement,

I'm gonna create a new variable called renderedCells,

and that's gonna come from config.map.

So we are mapping over our config array.

I'm going to receive the configuration object,

which I'm going to call column.

So the column object is gonna be each of the config objects

that we put together inside the config array.

Then inside of renderedCells,

I'm going to return a TD

where I call this column object's render function

and then pass in the current fruit that we are mapping over.

The TD must have a key

because we are building up a list of elements here.

So I'm gonna give it a key

of the column objects, label property.

So column.label because that is unique and consistent.

So now,

we're going to have a list of TD elements

exactly equal to the number of config objects.

So we're going to take renderedCells

and display it inside the TR.

Now,

this part that we just did I feel is a little bit nasty.

I feel like this is kinda confusing.

This is probably the worst part

of this entire table project.

So all we just did was instead

of writing out each individual TD one by one,

we produce them on the fly

by mapping over that config array.

We want to map over the config array

because we always want to have a number of columns

or number of TDs equal to the number

of objects inside of this array.

So we have three objects inside of here.

That means we want to have three columns.

That means we want to have three TD elements inside

of each row.

So now,

if we save this and flip back over, hey, it actually works.

You'll notice some styling is a little bit off.

That's just because we did not place

a class name property on the TD right here.

If we add in the same classname

we had before of p-2, now,

we should end up with something

just like what we had before.

So that's it.

That's the challenging part.

That's probably the hardest part

of this entire table component,

but now, we're done with it.

Whew, kind of over it.

So now,

the nice thing about this is that outside of sorting,

our table is actually pretty full-featured.

If we want to add in additional columns to the table,

all we have to do is go back to tablepage.js

and we can add in an additional configuration object.

So if I want to add in another column

at the very end of the table, so the very right-hand side,

I can add in another object right here

with a label of name again.

So I'm just gonna print out the name again of a fruit.

And if I want to print out the name,

I would then give it a render function

that's gonna take a fruit

and return that fruit's name.

So now,

just because I added in that object right there,

if I go back over, I'll see name again,

and I get the name of the fruit.

If I wanna do something crazy, like score squared...

so if I want to just take a fruit's score

and square it as in raise it to the power of two,

I could do fruit.score times times two.

That's how we do power of two in JavaScript.

So now, if I save that,

I'll see five times five is 25, three times three is nine,

one times one is one, and so on.

So using this technique,

we can now add

or remove columns from our table at will.

And we can very easily customize the label of the column

and what content is displayed inside of every cell

of that column as well by using the render function.

So this is pretty fantastic.

I'm going to remove that last column

'cause we don't really need it.
260
Instructor: The last big thing we need to add

into our table is sorting functionality.

But before we do so, I forgot one last thing.

I need to make sure that the second column right here

displays a little box with a color inside of it.

So I'm gonna take care of that really quickly.

We can change what the second column displays

if we change these second configuration object

inside of our config array.

So instead of returning the fruit's color right there,

I'm going to return a div that has a class name

that uses back ticks inside of a set of curly braces.

And I want it to be p-3 m-2 ${fruit.color}.

So that's exactly what we had a little bit ago

back inside of our table component.

I'm gonna save this, and then if we go back over,

we're back to seeing the actual color on here again.

Very good.

All right, last thing I would like to add

into our table is sorting functionality.
261
-: Before we move on to sorting,

there's one other quick thing I would like to take care of

Remember, the goal of our table component

is to be able to receive any kind of data

and render it out as a table.

Right now, we're definitely making good strides

in that direction,

but if we look at the source code of our table component,

you'll notice that there are still a couple of references

to variables called fruit.

So one right here, one right here

and one down here as well.

So ideally, we would not have any references

to any variable called fruit because that kind of implies

that this component only works with fruit objects.

So let's rename this variable

because it's being received inside of a mapping function,

we can call it anything we want.

I'm gonna call it rowData instead

because that's kind of what this thing represents.

It is all the data for one particular row of the table.

So I'm gonna change the name right there.

I'm going to change the name right here.

And then finally, we need to change the name down here

when we pass the key prop into the tr.

So it should be rowData.

But before we move on from this,

there's one small issue here.

Remember what I said just a moment ago.

We're trying to make our table component

able to receive any kind of data

and show it inside of a table.

So right here, we have some code

that is making a huge assumption

around the data that our table is receiving.

This is assuming

that our different records that we're receiving

are always gonna have a name prop

that is suitable for use as a key property

and that might not be reality.

Right now our fruit objects do have a name

but we eventually might try to show a table with some data

that doesn't have a name prop at all.

So we really can't assume

that we're always gonna have a name property.

So we need to come up with some solution here.

We need to figure out some way to generate a key

and pass it as a prop to this tr.

But we can't really make any assumptions whatsoever

on the form or structure

of the data that our table component is going to receive.

So here's how we're gonna fix this.

We're gonna put the burden of coming up with a key

on the developer who is using our table component.

So let me show you what that means.

I'm gonna go back over to table page.

Here's TablePage js.

Then down towards the bottom,

I'm going to create a new function called keyFn.

Fn right here is short for function.

So I just need to indicate that this is a function

being used to generate a key.

I'm going to assume that this is going to be called

with each of our different fruit objects.

And then from this function, I'm going to return some value

that is suitable for use as a key.

So for us, fruit.name absolutely works.

I'm then going to pass this as a prop into Table

called keyFn.

Then inside of our table component,

I'm going to receive that prop.

So that's a function that we can use

to get a key to use for each individual row

inside of our table.

So now instead of us trying to come up with a key

inside of our table component,

because we really can't come up with one

because we can't make any assumptions

on the data we are receiving.

We're going to instead use keyFn right here

and then pass in the current row data object

that we are mapping over.

And that's how we're gonna fix it.

So again, we're kind of putting the burden

on coming up with a key

on the person who is using our component.

If you're gonna use our table component,

you have to give us a key function

or a function we can use to generate a key.

Now if we save both these files

and flip back over and refresh,

I don't see any errors and that means

that our key function is definitely working correctly.

Alright, so now inside of Table.js,

I'm just gonna do a quick scan inside of here.

I should no longer have any references to fruit whatsoever.

It looks like I don't with the one exception of,

nope, column.label.

That's good.

Yeah, so now we don't really have any assumptions

on the data that has been passed into our table component

with the one exception of it must be an array of objects.

That's pretty much it.

So we're well on way

to making this thing actually truly reusable.

Like I said, last step here is sorting.